
Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this
      file which includes the original illustrations.
      See 42164-h.htm or 42164-h.zip:
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/42164/42164-h/42164-h.htm)
      or
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/42164/42164-h.zip)


      Images of the original pages are available through
      the the Google Books Library Project. See
      http://www.google.com/books?id=iHg4AAAAMAAJ


Transcriber's note:

      Text enclosed by underscores is in italics (_italics_).

      Small capital text has been replaced with all capitals.





[Illustration: ELI JONES.]

[Illustration: SYBIL JONES.]




  ELI AND SIBYL JONES:

  THEIR LIFE AND WORK.

  BY

  RUFUS M. JONES.

  "Our wills are ours, we know not how;
  Our wills are ours, to make them Thine."

  _In Memoriam._

  PHILADELPHIA:
  PORTER & COATES.




COPYRIGHT, 1889,

BY PORTER & COATES.




  TO

  THE SWEET AND SHINING MEMORY

  OF

  PLINY EARLE CHASE,

  WHOSE SCHOLARSHIP AND CHRISTIAN MANHOOD INSPIRED
  YOUNG MEN TO RICHER AND PURER LIVES, AND
  WHO AS TEACHER POINTED STUDENTS

  TO THE

  GREAT MASTER,

  THIS BOOK

  IS
  AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED

  BY HIS PUPIL.




PREFACE.


In our busy and material lives we all need to be reminded at times
that there have been and still are among us those who have deadened
love of self, whose struggle on earth, far from being to amass any
kind of treasures, is to bring before as many human beings as possible
the great plan of salvation, the means of elevation from degradation
to lofty Christian individuality, and the source of a power and a love
which are making all things new in proportion as submission is given
thereto.

We are not always conscious of the strength exerted around us by
seemingly trivial forces, but their work is no less important in the
development of the globe than the violent upheavals which overawe us
by their stupendous might. So, often, quiet lives extend a wider
permanent influence for the welfare of man than do those of men and
women who receive the unstinted praise of their contemporaries.

ELI and SYBIL JONES have done valuable service, and have lived lives
full of teaching to those who wish to enter upon a course of devoted
obedience to the same Master. I have prepared this sketch of their
lives and work from the love which I feel for them, and in the hope
that it will interest and profit others. I am conscious that the stamp
of youth is on the work, but I am certain that it has been undertaken
and accomplished in the spirit of sincerity.

The visit to Liberia was wonderful in many ways, and should have been
published after their return, so that their work might have brought
forth more decided fruit. The letters from Palestine and Syria were
written for the _Friends' Review_ by Eli Jones and Ellen Clare Miller
(since Pearson). Extracts have been chosen to give their descriptions
of the country and the nature of their work there.

The book has been prepared in the midst of other work, and that must
in part be the apology for its imperfections. Having as a young man
received invaluable help from these two Friends, and feeling that
their words and lives have done much to throw light on the true path
which broadens into the "highway of holiness," it is my hope that this
simple recital may in a measure repay what I owe them and find a place
of usefulness in the world.

  3d mo. 13, 1889, FRIENDS' SCHOOL, Providence.




CONTENTS.


  CHAPTER I.
                                        PAGE
  EARLY YEARS,                             9

  CHAPTER II.

  AT SCHOOL AND AT HOME,                  18

  CHAPTER III.

  MARRIAGE WITH SYBIL JONES,              27

  CHAPTER IV.

  FIRST VISIT,                            40

  CHAPTER V.

  EAST, WEST, AND SOUTH,                  54

  CHAPTER VI.

  VOYAGE TO LIBERIA,                      60

  CHAPTER VII.

  WORK IN ENGLAND AND IRELAND,           108

  CHAPTER VIII.

  NORWAY, GERMANY, AND SWITZERLAND,      127

  CHAPTER IX.

  WINTER IN THE SOUTH OF FRANCE,         141

  CHAPTER X.

  IN THE MAINE LEGISLATURE,              160

  CHAPTER XI.

  IN WASHINGTON,                         169

  CHAPTER XII.

  MISSION-WORK,                          185

  CHAPTER XIII.

  LETTERS FROM SYRIA,                    199

  CHAPTER XIV.

  SECOND VISIT TO THE HOLY LAND,         251

  CHAPTER XV.

  SYBIL JONES: HER LIFE-WORK AND DEATH,  268

  CHAPTER XVI.

  ALONE AT HOME,                         285

  CHAPTER XVII.

  LATER VISITS TO THE EAST,              292

  CHAPTER XVIII.

  AS A FRIEND,                           299

  CHAPTER XIX.

  HIS PLACE AS A WORKER,                 307




ELI AND SYBIL JONES.




CHAPTER I.

_EARLY YEARS._

    "Man is the nobler growth our soil supplies,
    And souls are ripened 'neath our northern skies."


The man whose early life was passed in the isolation of primeval
forests, and who grew to manhood carrying on an unceasing struggle to
turn the rough, uncultivated soil into productive fields, gardens, and
pasture-lands, has worked into his life something which no coming
generation can inherit or acquire. He has missed the broad culture of
the schools and universities, he cannot gain the intellectual skill
which long study gives, but he has had a training which lays a
foundation for the keenest judgment and for prompt decision in
complicated circumstances, and his soul in solitude has taken in
truths of God which often escape men lost in the tumultuous world of
business and pleasure. The men who were born during the first quarter
of a century after our national life began have nearly all been
characterized by special traits which will perhaps not appear again in
the more developed growth of the nation. It has not astonished us to
see a man leave his little cottage after twenty-five years of toil
and go through all the grades of honor, reach a position from which he
could hardly go higher, and finally depart from a life unspotted,
respected by mankind.

But in this development there is no chance: he mounts by a law which,
if we knew it, is as unvariable as that of gravitation. The powers of
the mind and soul seek a field in which they may be put to work at
profit. It cannot be uninteresting to follow the course of a man who
has shown--at least to those who have known him well--that there was
something in him of value to the world. In measuring the worth of any
man, we must not be dazzled by the glare of earthly glory, but calmly
inquire what he has done that has built itself into other lives, and
we must look beyond outward things to see in how far he has been the
honored tool of the Supreme Worker.

The family of Jones is a large one, and its genealogical table would
make a long story. Welsh John succeeded Welsh John, and was called
John's son until time wore the name down to Jones. Generation after
generation they held their place and did their work among the Welsh
hills, until one of them was called upon to steer the Mayflower with
its precious load to Plymouth. Eli Jones writes in a letter dated 1st
mo. 9th, 1888: "I have been reading Bonvard's _Plymouth and the
Pilgrims_, from which I learn that Isaac Robinson, son of the Rev.
John Robinson, pastor of the Pilgrim Fathers, was an early settler at
Plymouth, and that he became a Quaker. Our grandmother Jepson was a
Robinson, and, for aught I know, great-great-great-grandniece of this
very Isaac Robinson. The captain of the Mayflower was a Jones. With
him we claim kindred, and that claim is readily allowed. Now, if our
great-great-great-grandsire was the venerable patriarch who led in
prayer and gave the memorable parting charge[1] to the Pilgrims, and
if his son, our great-great-greatuncle, was, as history relates, a
trading man in the colony and a 'convinced Friend,' it is certainly
fitting that we should take a lively interest in what occurred among
our kin in 1620."

  [1] John Robinson's charge is as follows: "I charge you, before God
  end his blessed angels, that ye follow me no further than ye have seen
  me follow the Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord has more truth yet to break
  forth out of his holy word. I cannot sufficiently bewail the condition
  of the Reformed churches, who are come to a period in religion, and
  will go at present no further than the instruments of their
  reformation. Luther and Calvin were great and shining lights in their
  times, yet they penetrated not into the whole counsel of God. I
  beseech you remember it--'tis an article of your Church covenant--that
  you be ready to receive whatever truth shall be made known to you from
  the written word of God."

Much later, after many settlements in different parts of New England
had failed, and the Pilgrim and Puritan colonies were in prosperous
growth, three brothers bearing the name of Jones came to this
continent. One of them found a forest home on the bank of the
Androscoggin River, six miles from Brunswick, in the township of
Durham and District of Maine. Quite a large number of friends
collected here, and a meeting-house was built not far away. There was
a large Friends' meeting at Deering, near Portland, and the name of
Jones was common among its members. The monthly and quarterly meetings
at each place were frequently visited by Friends from the other,
necessitating a foot-journey of fully forty miles through almost
pathless woods. The house is still standing in which Abel Jones was
born. He determined to leave his home and go farther north. He
travelled on horseback up the Kennebec River as far as Vassalboro',
and then rode ten miles east to the north-eastern end of what is now
China Lake, in earlier times often called the "Twelve-mile Pond,"
because it is twelve miles from Augusta, the State capital. His young
bride, Susannah Jepson, rode on horseback from North Berwick, a
distance of one hundred and fifteen miles. She was attended by her
brother alone, and brought only what a pair of saddlebags could hold.
Here in a little house, in the year 1807, their first child was born
and named Eli. A letter was at once sent to the young child's
grandfather and grandmother at Durham. The letter came to the nearest
post-station, twelve miles away, and was taken in charge by an elderly
Friend who lived there. He volunteered to start out at once to carry
the letter to its destination, thinking it might contain valuable
information. As he listened to its contents at the end of his journey
he made the significant remark, "Is that all there is in it?" and
jogged back home.

One's first thought would be that if a child was to be brought up in
the Maine woods, it would make very little difference in what part of
the State the spot happened to be; but it is not at all so. As a young
life is very susceptible to outward scenes and every-day events, we
can hardly estimate the moulding influence of little things.

The life of the few families in the early history of China would be
exceedingly interesting if we only had a graphic sketch from the pen
of one of its settlers. Owning the acres they cleared and tilled and
the houses in which they dwelt, they called no man master, but they
bowed in reverence before their heavenly King and obeyed His
commandments. They did their day's work week after week, little
thinking that a generation would come which would wish to follow the
story of their trials and triumphs, their joys and sorrows; and now
almost all that is left us is the inherited strength from their sturdy
lives and a few stories of their sufferings.

Without doubt, nothing in nature had more influence on the bent of Eli
Jones's mind than China Lake and its beautiful shores. A boy placed on
the bank of a lake stretching off seven miles becomes inheritor to a
domain more vast than the acres of water it contains. He feels that he
owns so much of this world's glory, and this feeling of ownership
lifts him out of the common, dull round of life. Year by year he owns
more in proportion as his soul expands and he sees more of God's work
and God's love in the painted sunsets beyond the western shore and in
the forests above and below the placid waters. No one who has not
experienced it can appreciate the worth of a lake to a boy. It is not
simply because he can fish there, or can swim there, or can make a
rude boat and so float on its surface. That is its chief worth to the
thoughtless boy, but it was not all to the keenly perceptive child who
was father to the man Eli Jones. It was his great playmate whom he
loved. It was at the same time his teacher, whose "various language"
spoke a Father's presence and His love.

It is very monotonous toil changing a rough forest to a productive
farm, but a youth becomes a familiar friend to stumps, hillocks, and
rocks; to him the mounds are Indian graves, the tall stones mark the
final resting-places of mighty chiefs, and his imagination fills the
round of work with marvellous scenes. Very many, doubtless, see only
their work and the fruit of it, but there are a few who see mysteries
and learn lessons wherever they are placed, so that monotony is
changed to endless variety. Eli Jones was one of those boys who make
gain from ethereal things.

The spot which Abel Jones chose for his home had many of the
characteristics of a scene in Maine. Hills were backed by other hills,
and not far in from the lake was a mile-long "horseback."[2] The trees
were not pigmies in those days, but giant oaks and pines,

    "Whose living towers the years conspired to build,
    Whose giddy tops the morning loved to gild."

  [2] These ridges are very abundant in Maine, and are supposed to owe
  their origin to glacial action.

There were dense forests of cedar, and the scattered bass-woods made
the whole place fragrant in the spring. Never had an axe swung in
these solitudes, and the mighty power of the ages was felt as these
stout pines met the breeze. It was no small privilege to be canopied
with such a tent as their meeting tops made.

    "Whoso walks in solitude
    And inhabiteth the wood,
    Choosing light, wave, rock, and bird
    Before the money-loving herd,--
    Into that forester shall pass,
    From these companions, power and grace.
    On him the light of star and moon
    Shall fall with purer radiance down;
    All constellations of the sky
    Shed their virtue through his eye.
    Him Nature giveth for defence
    His formidable innocence.
    The mounting sap, the shells, the sea,
    All spheres, all stones, his helpers be."

China had first been settled in 1774 by a family of Clarks. There were
four brothers, two of whom were Friends. They cut the first tree that
a white man's axe had ever felled in the township, and began to survey
the land for homes. The two Friends chose the eastern and the others
the western side of the lake. Life in the midst of the Maine forest
implied struggle, and these families were courageous. No report of
possible gold-mines or other hidden wealth drew them and those who
followed them, but the desire to seek out quiet homes for themselves
and their children where the temptations to a life of uselessness
would be few. Trials they expected, and they were not spared. It was a
hand-to-hand contest with want. At one time a cow was nearly the only
valuable possession of the little company, and this was accidentally
shot for a deer. The men went often ten miles through the woods, by
the aid of "spotted" or "blazed" trees, to get their corn ground. We
are told that in one case the mother was forced to put stones, in lieu
of potatoes, in the hot ashes to induce her crying hungry children to
go to bed until they should be called, and often the potatoes which
had been planted were dug up to be eaten. Indians and the wild animals
were around them, continually causing fear. In a cove at the
south-western shore of the lake is a large heart, called the
"Indian's heart," cut in a huge boulder, and in spring nearly covered
by water. This marks the encampment of a tribe of Indians naturally
friendly to their white neighbors, but exceedingly treacherous. On one
occasion they visited the settlers in a body, and while the latter
were unsuspiciously entertaining them they threw water on the guns of
the white men, and only the darkness of the night saved these from
destruction.

Gradually one family after another was added to the community, and as
they all came for the same purpose, the settlement was composed of
strong characters. These farmers had the idea that it should not be
the chief aim of those who till the soil to grow rich, or to fill the
market with choice vegetables, or to gain an easy livelihood, but
rather to send out from their households sons and daughters marked by
strength of character and able to do manly and womanly work in the
various spheres of the world. Their visible workfield may have seemed
narrow and roughly hedged in, but they felt the needs of the future,
and did their best to raise a tower of strength in the land by
properly training their successors. The horizon which shuts in their
real domain expands as the times grow riper.

The first Friends' meeting in China was held about 1803, in a private
house two and a half miles from the south end of the lake. Abel Jones
was married to Susannah Jepson in this house in 1806, and about seven
years later a meeting-house was built, to which Eli was taken even
before it was wholly finished. This building was heated by a wood-fire
under an iron kettle, and in every particular it was plain and rough;
but no more sincere praises to the Lord have risen through the arches
of marvellously wrought cathedrals than in this forest meeting-house.
Eli Jones's grandfather on his mother's side was the first
acknowledged minister in this meeting. Eli first heard the gospel
preached in this house, and here he saw the occasional visitors from
afar. Each year, which added its natural increase to the boy's
stature, was marking a no less evident growth of mind and vigor of
spirit. His mother taught him that "serving God and keeping His
commandments was the whole duty of man." He was shown by the quiet
example of both parents that honest work in the right spirit is an
essential part of pure and undefiled religion, while the lives of
Joseph, Samuel, David, and Daniel were put before him, showing him the
justness of God's dealing in the different ages, both in rewarding
righteousness and in punishing unrighteousness. Those heroes of faith
of the Old Testament made a deep impression on him, as they must on
every young person whose mind is not corrupted by the unnatural and
impossible fictions of the present day; but the pages which told of
Christ's work and words, His life and death, were so fixed in his mind
and heart that the great Master early began to shape and strengthen
the character of His chosen disciple.




CHAPTER II.

_AT SCHOOL AND AT HOME._

    "My mind, aspire to higher things--
    Grow rich in that which never taketh rust."

    PHILIP SIDNEY.


The opportunities for study in China were not enough to satisfy a boy
with even a moderately strong desire for knowledge. Books were as rare
as in the days before John Gutenberg, and Eli Jones has often said
that if he had been asked ten times a day what he most wished for, he
would have answered each time, Books. The fact that he longed so to
read, and that he was almost entirely confined to the Bible, resulted
in his becoming thoroughly familiar with the different parts of that
great Book. It furnished him his poetry, his history, and his ethics;
it was his reading-book and his spelling-book. Joseph in his coat of
many colors and David with his sling were as much acquaintances of his
as were the few boys he played with. David's lament for Jonathan and
Deborah's song of triumph, the spiritual melody of the Psalms and
Isaiah's rapt words, made him feel the power of Hebrew poetry, while
the New Testament was helping him to know the manliness and divinity
of Christ. What boys acquired in those days was well acquired, and if
they did not have as much learning, they often were imbued with a
better learning than at the end of the same century. It is certain
that Eli had the spirit to learn, and did what he could to lay a
proper foundation.

While he was still very young he came with his father and mother to
live at the south end of the lake, and there was built the house which
has been the birthplace and home of so many of the Jones family.
During the years of political excitement and fierce war against the
mother-country--the years between 1812 and 1815--hardly a rumor of the
outside strife had penetrated the long line of unbroken forests. While
men were dying daily to force England to respect American rights, and
while Europe was united to crush Napoleon, the citizens along China
Lake were building brick-kilns to make material for the chimneys of
their houses, doing their every-day work without knowing, perhaps,
that Bonaparte was in the world, and having no fear that a war-cloud
might break over them. Thus the future lover of peace dwelt in peace,
and he did not need to learn the horrors of war by experience to hate
it.

A schoolhouse was built just over the hill north of his home, and
thither he went to be taught; but the terms were very short, and the
teachers only knew a few first principles, though they faithfully
labored to fix these in the minds of their pupils. One teacher, after
working two days on a problem in long division, gave the result to Eli
Jones, saying, "I know that is right now, but I can't explain it to
you or tell you why it is done that way." Eli had an exalted opinion
of one of the teachers who held sway in this little house, and has
often spoken of him with affection. He spent a whole winter teaching
his older pupils to spell ordinary English words correctly, and took
Eli through the spelling-book until all the words in it were fixed
visibly in his brain, where they have since remained; and in all his
teaching since spelling has been one of the branches which was not
elective in the course.

During the winter of 1827 he had the benefit of the charitable fund at
the Friends' School in Providence, R. I. He divided the half year with
another scholar, so that he had only three months, but he was prepared
to make the most of this opportunity. He took ship-passage from Bath
to Providence. The first night after his departure from home his
mother passed in walking the floor and worrying for her boy tossed on
the sea, as she supposed, but he was quietly sleeping all the while in
his berth on the ship, which had anchored in the harbor on account of
fog, and sailed the next morning.

Friends' School, which had been opened at Portsmouth in 1784, was in
its second organization less than ten years old when he came to it,
but it was firmly established, and was often visited by its
foster-father, the venerable Moses Brown. The institution consisted of
one tall, massive brick building looking toward the south, and two
lower transverse wings, to which successive additions have been made
to meet the needs of the times. In front and rear of the buildings
were extensive grounds divided into yards, lawns, and groves of oak
and chestnut trees, then in their youth, now majestic with the
increase of half a century. Beyond the boundary of the school
property, toward the river which Roger Williams had crossed in his
search for a peaceful abode, were great forests of ancient maples,
oaks, and chestnuts, with hillsides of towering hemlocks, and swamps
where the boys, who did not study botany, sought for little beyond the
extermination of a marvellous race of black snakes. From the cupola of
the middle building was a prospect of wide extent, showing to the
new-comers the whole State at a glance, and placing before their eyes
the waters of Narragansett Bay.

Enoch Breed--called universally "Cousin Enoch"--was at the head of the
school as superintendent, while his wife, "Cousin Lydia," was the
matron. She was a sweet, lovely lady, and her presence was felt by all
in the school. "Cousin Enoch" was not an educator, but he was a kind,
fatherly man, a shrewd manager, a good farmer, and an exemplary
character. He always wore his broad-brimmed hat, and was never seen
outside of his private room with it off; the boys looked upon him as
their patriarch, and, indeed, it is said that on one occasion he was
asked if he were Methuselah, and dryly answered, "No, I am Enoch."

Isaiah Jones taught the mathematics, and was considered a very
successful teacher. The other instructors were David Daniels, who
taught what Latin was then required; George Jones, Moses Mitchel,
Abigail Pierce, and Mary Almy.

Reading, spelling, and grammar were the only classes which recited;
all the other work of the school was done privately, each student
being independent and going as slowly or rapidly as his brain-power
and ambition prescribed. Mathematics was the important branch, and
each boy copied problems and their solutions into interminable
copy-books. The school-room was small and lighted by tin oil lamps on
the desks. In this room there were often one hundred and fifty boys: a
number of these were appointed as monitors to report all disorderly
conduct to the teachers.

The meetings were held in the building in an upper chamber, where boys
and girls and teachers sat in the same room. These were generally
silent meetings, but occasionally William Almy or Doctor Tobey came to
give them counsel.

Among the schoolmates of Eli Jones were James N. Buffum, since
ex-mayor of Lynn, Mass., and Peter Neal, also since ex-mayor of the
same city, now on the committee of the school. The latter relates that
Eli Jones received the "christening" always given new boys in those
days, and his remark on that occasion was characteristic of him. The
old students were put in line at night on the play-ground, and among
them stood the newcomer. A "dummy" with swollen cheeks came to each
boy in turn, and was answered by all, "Um!" until he reached Eli, who,
as instructed beforehand, said, "Squirt," when suddenly his face was
filled with water. Instead of the attack which the boys expected, Eli
quietly remarked, "_That was cleverly done_." Peter Neal remarks that
if he had been known as he was a month later, he would have received
no christening.

His schoolmates relate that he was a good boy, and that he was
generally liked. In his youth he was much troubled by an impediment in
his speech, and he early resolved to remedy it as much as possible. He
was the only one of scholars or teachers in the boarding-school who
was accustomed to speak in the Friends' meeting. He had already begun
to speak at home, and, notwithstanding the trial which it was to him
as a young man, he stood up among the boys and forced his voice to say
what was in his heart. Few who heard him on those occasions are alive
now, but these few remember how it impressed them to see one who
played with them on the campus and sat with them in classes speak so
earnestly before them and all the rows of solemn Friends. They
respected his message, for his life was pure.

He had a dread of the nursery, and resolved to keep out of it, but he
was taken with typhoid fever, and after vainly fighting it off at last
succumbed to be doctored in the vigorous way of those times. He had a
long, hard siege of it, and lost a number of weeks from his brief
term; but this short break from his usual life and the intercourse
with cultivated teachers and scholars could not fail to leave its
impress. It lifted his aspirations and widened somewhat the course of
his thoughts, giving an impulse to his future life more valuable than
mere knowledge. While it is to be regretted that so short a time was
given him for satisfying his longings for a higher education, we
rejoice that he knew so well how to school himself and to be a teacher
to himself. He was a good mathematician, and his copy-books show that
he was no tyro at figures; but he affirms that his drill in the old
spelling-book was of far greater worth to him than his higher
mathematics.

When he reached home from Providence, he found a young brother
twenty-one years younger than himself. This was Edwin, the youngest of
the family of eleven, and to him fell the homestead and the care of
the father, mother, and sister Peace.

There is still standing a little red building, about one mile from
South China, called the Chadwick Schoolhouse, in which many a man has
laid his ABC foundation. Its external and internal appearance would
not lead one to suppose that this was a "temple of learning" or any
other kind of a temple, but not a few successful men look back to it
with a feeling of reverence, and the near presence of a yard where
many others of its day tenants of earlier time lie under toppling
stones, just carved enough to tell the names and some of the virtues
of those beneath, gives somewhat of a sacredness to the little
building. It was in this house that Eli first opened his mouth to
speak in the assemblies of the people. He was quite young, less than
fourteen, when he arose in a meeting in that house and said, "Behold
the Bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him." On their way home his
grandfather asked who had spoken in the "body of the meeting," but the
grandmother checked her husband with a slight nudge and answered the
question by a motion of her finger. A few years ago a very aged man
came up to Eli Jones and said, "I remember the first time you ever
spoke in meeting, and I know what you said." From this time on he was
often heard briefly in religious assemblies, and he was encouraged by
older Friends to be faithful in delivering his message when impressed.

After his return from Providence School, Eli Jones began to be a
definite worker for the bettering of the world, and the seeds he then
planted have brought forth the blade and the ear, and now the full
corn is in the ear. He and a few others organized a temperance
society of which he was the secretary; and many meetings were held in
China and the adjoining town. Essays were written and speeches were
delivered against the use of intoxicating drinks. This organization
was made two years before the Washingtonian movement was started, and
its influence in the State was great, aiding undoubtedly the enactment
of the "Maine Law" which has made itself felt in all our States and in
many of the other countries.

The same winter he was one of a small company which met to start a
public library. They formed a successful library association. Books
soon began to come in, and from that day Eli Jones has not wanted for
reading matter. With few exceptions, when absent doing higher work, he
has attended the meetings of this association and aided it by his zeal
and counsel.

It is a matter of interest to notice a young man who had just barely
become a full-fledged citizen turning his mind so strongly toward
enlightening those near him, and that, too, in a community where he
did not have the example of any predecessor to arouse him and spur him
on. He was travelling a new road, and building as he went. The secret
of it all was that there was something in him which forbade rest and
inaction. In early years he saw fully that the part of man which ate
and slept was not the important part, but that there was something
within him which could span space and time, and which was spoken to by
the whisperings of the Spirit of the eternal Ruler.

At the present time biographies are within the reach of all boys, and
they can see how great men and good men have made their lives
complete--how they shaped their course, what goal they set before
them, and what lifted them to the mark. In his youth, Eli Jones had
almost no possibility of knowing from the record of other lives how
best to build in youth. His father was a righteous man, whose actions
were living epistles, and his mother was a living, teaching Christian.
From both he inherited much and learned much; but "there is a divinity
that shapes our ends," and, once in the hands of the great Potter,
there is a marvellous shaping of the clay. Biographies, all good
books, and directions in the right way are helps, but submission to be
trained and then used by the Master Builder, is infinitely more of a
help in the making of a right man.

Great men of all ages have recognized a power, a daimon, an
ecstasy--or, better, a Spirit--inspiring them, urging them to seek
truth and beauty, to live lives of truth and beauty and goodness, and
to shun as their greatest enemy everything that distorts and ties
weights to their flying feet. Everything teaches the man who is to be
wise; but most of all the Spirit teaches those who give ear unto Him;
and if any one thing has made the life of Eli Jones a success, it is
that he listened actively to the voice which said, "Give me thine
heart."




CHAPTER III.

_MARRIAGE WITH SYBIL JONES._

    "I see in the world the intellect of man,
    That sword, the energy his subtle spear,
    The knowledge which defends him like a shield--
    Everywhere; but they make not up, I think,
    The marvel of a soul like thine."

    BROWNING.


In 1833, Eli Jones was married to Sybil Jones, the daughter of Ephraim
and Susannah Jones.

Susannah was the daughter of Micajah Dudley, son of Samuel Dudley, a
great-grandson of Samuel Dudley of Exeter, N. H., the eldest son of
Gov. Thomas Dudley, the pilgrim of Plymouth, said to have been
descended from the lineage of the earls of Leicester. Both Sybil
Jones's parents and grandparents were Friends, and her grandfather and
great-grandfather Dudley were preachers of fine talents and high
character.

Ephraim Jones was a "noble man" and a strong character. He was often
deeply lost in thought, to such an extent that many anecdotes are
related of his absent-mindedness which are very amusing. He did not
want in vigor of mind, and he was one of the marked men of the town.
Some are still alive who remember him as he stood up at quarterly
meeting and took his text, "If thou hast run with the footmen, and
they have wearied thee, then how canst thou contend with horses? and
if in the land of peace, wherein thou trustedst, they wearied thee,
then how wilt thou do in the swelling of Jordan?" He was a man who
left a remembrance behind him, and the strength of his life has not
been lost. His wife Susannah lived to the good old age of ninety-four,
and was loved by all who saw her. "Grandmother Jewel" was her name in
her old age. Eli's mother, who was nearly as old, was also named
Susannah, and it was a memorable day for the grandchildren when these
two grandmothers talked together of the olden time. "Grandmother
Jewel" was very deaf, but otherwise she was a vigorous woman as long
as she lived, and, ripe with years and blessed with the fruit of those
years, she passed from this world a few months before her daughter.

It is told that when Eli Jones visited Sybil Jones with the purpose of
asking her to become his life-companion, the latter, not suspecting
the weight of his mission, took down the Bible to read a chapter, as
was always customary in those days before visitors returned home. On
this occasion Sybil Jones opened to the twentieth Psalm, beginning,
"The Lord hear thee in the day of trouble; the name of the God of
Jacob defend thee, send thee help from the sanctuary and strengthen
thee out of Zion; remember all thy offerings and accept all thy
burnt-sacrifices; grant thee according to thine own heart, and fulfil
all thy counsel." The mission was accomplished successfully, and for
forty years the lives of Eli and Sybil Jones were linked together by
the bonds of deep and pure love, while their aims, longings, and
desires were merged into the one purpose of showing to the world that
there is a love which transcends all earthly affection, and that God's
love is an unbroken canopy which shelters the races of the round
globe. Herein was their love continually made more perfect. I may
quote as applicable to them the beautiful words of Izaak Walton,
written to express the regard between the saintly George Herbert and
his wife: "For the eternal Lover of mankind made them happy in each
other's mutual and equal affections and compliance; indeed, so happy
that there never was any opposition betwixt them, unless it were a
contest which should most incline to a compliance with the other's
desires. And though this begot, and continued in them, such a mutual
love and joy and content as was no way defective, yet this mutual
content and love and joy did receive a daily augumentation by such
daily obligingness to each other as still added such new affluences to
the former fulness of these divine souls as was only improvable in
heaven."

Sybil Jones was born at Brunswick, Me., in 1808. Her birthplace was
very near the early home of Abel Jones. Only her youngest years were
spent here, but she always had a love for her first home, and one of
her early poems, written at about the age of twenty-one, speaks of it
with fondness.

Her early life was spent at Augusta, "which was the birthplace of
those deep religious impressions that formed the motive power of a
life pre-eminently consecrated to the service of her Redeemer and the
human race." She often felt that the sermons and exhortations to which
she listened during her early years were not of such a nature as to
bring her to a saving knowledge of the sacrifice and love of Christ.
Perhaps too little care was taken in those days to fulfil the Lord's
command, "Feed my lambs;" and it is possible that our Society would
have been more strongly built up if those good men who preached
zealously to _edify_ the _Church_ had done so more effectually by
taking the little ones by the hand and pointing them to the Source of
satisfying life.

A good Methodist minister at Augusta spoke kindly to Sybil Jones of
her highest welfare, and she was very much helped and instructed by
him in the way of life. She came to realize that she must be born
again, and she accepted Christ, by whom alone she could become a child
of God. Her love for the Methodists became very strong, and it was a
most humiliating cross to her to obey her father's will that she
should show her Quakerism by wearing a Friend's plain bonnet. There is
a true anecdote which may properly be told, since it shows what her
will was by nature, as we shall see later what power she had when it
was in harmony with God's will. She was to attend China monthly
meeting with her father, and he insisted that she should wear the
"plain" bonnet. His request conflicted very much with her
determination, but it was not possible to move him from his purpose.
There was no course which could be taken to avoid wearing it, but she
put it on bottom side up, and rode with it so from Augusta to China.
But she fortunately saw and felt the simplicity and sincerity of
Friends, as well as the spirituality of their faith, and she became
firmly fixed in the belief that to be a true Quaker was to be a
genuine Christian, a faithful follower of Jesus as he and his apostles
marked out the road; and I must believe that if we all looked to the
same source for light and guidance, and if we strove as earnestly to
walk closely in His footsteps as she did, we should have little need
of apologies and defences for our simple faith.

In 1824-25 she attended the Friends' School at Providence, and for the
next eight years she was engaged in teaching. She felt a deep interest
in all that concerned her pupils, and it was the beginning of her
efforts to open to the eyes of the young a new world of knowledge,
beauty, and truth. One who has taught with a heart in the work will
never cease to look upon children with loving eyes; and they were
always the especial objects of her regard irrespective of their race
or color.

While still a teacher her father took her one day to attend Sidney
monthly meeting, across the Kennebec River, about twelve miles from
China. Lindley M. Hoag, then a young man, was at the meeting. He felt
called to deliver a message to some one in the women's meeting, and an
opportunity was given him to accomplish his purpose. He went to the
women's side of the house and powerfully and clearly set forth the
state of mind of some one present, and with prophetic words he pointed
out the future course of this young Friend if she should be fully
faithful to her inward promptings. Sybil Jones knew that he was
laying open her heart, and she was much moved. When her gift as a
minister was acknowledged, and she went out to hold meetings, she
found Lindley Hoag present at the first one she attended, and for some
time it seemed to her that she could not speak before him; but she
overcame the feeling and was well favored to speak. This guidance from
ministers who were moved to speak to her case, and the power given to
her to declare the condition of others, were strikingly illustrated
during her whole life.

During these years of teaching she was much given to writing, and she
not only copied many of the poems of her favorite authors, but she
composed numerous poems on various subjects, and wrote short maxims
for the rule of her conduct and life. It is very striking and touching
to see how she regarded the brevity of life, for almost all that is
left of her compositions is tinged with thoughts of death and the
grave. One poem is written "To Consumption," and she seems to have
been impressed with the feeling that her days were to be few, but she
hails with joy the beginning of another life and the freedom from the
cares and troubles of this present world. After saying how soon
"life's sickly dream" will be over she writes--

    "Oh may my future hours be given
    To peace, to virtue, and to Heaven,
    My hopes retain immortal birth,
    My joys ascend above the earth,
    My steps retrace the path they trod,
    My heart be fixed alone on God!"

While still young she burned most of her prose and poetic
compositions, partly because she was so often forced to read them
aloud to company, and very little from those years remains.

The following short poem may be as interesting as any, as her early
wish here expressed was so perfectly fulfilled in the character of her
accepted life-companion:

    "What! shall a face, then, win my heart,
      Mere symmetry of form?
    Such thrilling raptures _this_ impart
      With _love my bosom_ warm?
    As well might ocean's billow heave
      When not a wind did rise,
    As Fancy thus my heart deceive
      And fix my wandering eyes,
    No; 'tis the beauty of the soul
      That could my bosom fire;
    This would my tenderest thought control,
      And love and truth inspire."

The thoughts expressed in some of her maxims show the bent of her
mind, whether they are original or not. For example: "If you are told
that another reviles you, do not go about to vindicate yourself, but
reply thus: My other faults, I find, are hid from him, else I should
have heard of them too;" "Fix your character and keep to it, whether
alone or in company;" "No man can hurt you unless you please to let
him; then only are you hurt when you think yourself so."

Whatever her early attempts may show, Sybil Jones was certainly of a
highly poetic nature. Her whole organism was so delicate that musical
tones proceeded from her at the slightest touches from within or
without. Melodious words came almost unsummoned to her lips as she
plead with sinners to come to the waters of life and "drink without
money and without price." John Bright told the present writer that it
was always a delight to him to listen to her, and that he regarded her
as a poet of high degree in her thought and expression.

So with her daily duties and her thoughts of life and the future she
developed from girlhood to womanhood, and at the age of twenty-five
became the wife of Eli Jones. The joy and fruit resulting from their
union show unmistakably how fully they were suited for each other, and
they gave each other mutual help and inspiration. Their married life
was begun at South China upon a farm which has since been divided into
a number of smaller ones. The young wife was very careful in her
expenditures, and an accurate account of all their expenses and their
income was minutely kept by her.

The Friends' meeting-house was three miles away at Dirigo. Thither
they rode through the long, quiet woods every First and Fifth day to
take their places among the rows of Friends waiting upon the Lord. Few
houses made with hands have received more devoted worshippers, and few
places have been more hallowed by the presence of pure souls met with
one purpose, that of honoring the Ruler of the universe and learning
from His Holy Spirit. Here, in the presence of sympathizing listeners,
the voices of these two young Friends were often heard, and they were
early enrolled among the ministers of the Society. The phrase of the
early Friends was truly fitting in their case: "Their gifts were
acknowledged." The men and women of China meeting made it their
greatest endeavor to serve God acceptably in the path of daily duty
and self-denial. One by one their beautiful lives have ended; happily,
a few of them are yet left as examples, but a Quakerism--or rather a
Christianity--which could round and perfect such characters had no
earthly origin. China meeting at this time did not abound in powerful
ministers, but its members were men and women whose lives were
transparent and pure. They were "diligent in business, fervent in
spirit, serving the Lord," and they lived sermons. There has almost
always been in this community one or two Hymenæuses and Philetuses who
have drawn creeds for their private guidance and who have severely
troubled the Friends; but such disturbances have generally resulted in
the exaltation of the true faith, and as in the natural world the
struggle to overcome hindrances to growth adds strength and vigor, so
a wolf in sheep's clothing within the fold increases the vigilance of
the spirit and the dependence on the great Shepherd. There were many
intricate questions now and then arising for discussion which gave
valuable instruction to the young ministers, and they were gradually
being prepared for useful service. Those of other denominations who
know only of a training in a theological seminary as a fitting for
preaching and teaching cannot understand how they were being taught in
this remote country village; but "by the Spirit's finer ear" they were
hearing truths of life and immortality, and on the Rock they were
building characters of gold, silver, precious stones.

Eli Jones was a hard-working man, not only doing his farm-work, but at
different times owning shares in mills at Albion and in China and
assisting in the work of running them. After living a few years at
South China he removed to Dirigo and settled on a farm near the
Friends' meeting, where he lived until 1886.

       *       *       *       *       *

While Eli Jones was in London in 1875 he wrote to Sarah Fobey, a
lifelong friend of his beloved wife, for her recollections of their
school-days together, and her thoughts as to Sybil Jones's spiritual
exercises then and since. She wrote from Montreux, Switzerland, as
follows:

"My mind is filled with sweet and precious memories of the dear one.
She and I met at Friends' School in Providence in 1825. We met as
strangers, but a feeling of sympathy which is not easily explained
soon drew us together, and our intercourse there was the commencement
of one of the most delightful friendships that in all this changing
scene grew stronger and brighter with every passing year. I remember
her as one of the most studious pupils in the school, always coming to
her class with her lessons fully prepared and reciting them in a
manner that gained the admiration of her classmates. She had great
love for the beautiful, and a keen enjoyment of beautiful language
whether poetry or prose, and committing to memory, as she did, with
ease, her mind thus early became stored with much that was an
enjoyment to her in after years. In our Scripture lessons we made our
own selections, hers were always the most beautiful portions of the
Bible, often from Isaiah and the Psalms, a long chapter thoroughly
committed to memory, and recited in a manner which showed she
appreciated the truths it declared.

"To her schoolmates she was most kind and affectionate, and by her
readiness to assist them in their lessons and in every way to do them
good gained their universal love and esteem.

"She had a great flow of animal spirits, and entered with warmth and
interest into all our innocent pleasures and amusements; but such was
her sense of justice and of right that she would never overstep the
bounds of order nor disobey the regulations of the school. Of her
religious feeling and experience at that time I cannot speak. It was
not the custom then, as now in our Society, to speak of conversion or
to tell what God had done for our souls; and I had supposed that it
was not until after her return home that she gave her heart to Jesus
and became fully and entirely a child of His, ready to do His bidding,
and desiring above every other consideration to follow Him in the way
of His leading. How faithfully she did so, going from place to place,
from city to city, from State to State, finally from continent to
continent, declaring the unsearchable riches of Christ! One of the
most affectionate and loving of mothers, she counted nothing too near
or too dear to part with for His blessed name's sake.

"How many sinners she has warned! how many inquirers she has pointed
to Jesus, the door of hope! how many mourners she has comforted! She
faithfully obeyed the injunction, 'Sow ye beside all waters,' and the
seed thus sown has taken root, and will continue to bear fruit long
after we shall have gone to join the dear ones who earlier than we
have entered into their Master's rest. Who can calculate the amount
of good that one such life of dedication and devotion has
accomplished? It seems to me that a faithful record of it should be an
incentive to others to seek to follow her as she followed Christ. To
me she was the most remarkable woman I have ever met, and I feel it to
have been a peculiar blessing to have known her so long and loved her
so well. Now, as I write, 'Memory opens the long vista of buried
years,' and my heart travels through them all. I linger around sunny
spots, happy hours, days of delight, seasons of sweet spiritual
communion, in which she related to me the wonderful dealings of her
heavenly Father toward her, and the remarkable manner in which she was
often supplied with means to accomplish the service she believed He
required of her--how when there seemed no way for her to move He made
a way.

"She always seemed to me to be so spiritually-minded, and to live so
near her Saviour, as to be led and guided in a remarkable manner by
Him. I remember her when she opened her prospect to go to Europe for
the last time. She rises before me now, as she has often done, as I
saw her then. Soon after the meeting of ministers and elders assembled
Doctor Tobey arose and said, 'If there is a subject of particular
interest and importance to come before the meeting, this seems to be
the proper time.'

"She had not expected to present it at that sitting, but, as she
afterward told me, she said to herself, 'That surely means me.'

"She sat a little, while a feeling of great solemnity overspread the
meeting. She then arose with the most beautiful and heavenly
expression of countenance, her whole soul filled with the engrossing
subject, and with a grace and elegance of manner of which she was
entirely unconscious told us in beautiful and touching language what
she felt called to do in the service of her Lord, gratefully
acknowledging His many mercies thus far in her journey of life, and
her unshaken confidence and trust in Him for all that was to come. The
meeting was greatly moved and she was liberated with entire unity.

"How lovely and sweet she was! and, though she lived so many years and
did so much good in them all, it always seems to me that she died 'in
the midst of her years.'

"Oh, we should have liked to keep her longer, the dear one! But He who
seeth to the end knew when to close the strife--

    'Knew when to loose the silver cord,
      To break the golden bowl,
    And give to her that richest gift,
      Salvation of the soul.'"




CHAPTER IV.

_FIRST VISIT._

    "He who in glory did on Horeb's height
      Descend to Moses in the bush of flame,
    And bade him go and stand in Pharaoh's sight--
      Who once to Israel's pious shepherd came,
    And sent him forth his champion in the fight,--
      He within my heart thus spake to me:
     'Go forth! Thou shalt on earth my witness be.'"

    SCHILLER.


In the autumn of 1840, Sybil Jones was liberated by her Friends to
attend meetings and do religious work in the provinces, Nova Scotia,
and New Brunswick. In this work she was attended by her husband, and
they passed through many trying circumstances; but, being sustained
from above, they came home bringing sheaves with them and feeling that
they had been instruments in God's hand of doing good. A brief account
of this journey was kept by Sybil Jones. It has never been published,
but is full of interest to all those who love to follow the steps of
devoted servants of the Lord.

During the first winter of the Revolutionary War, Benedict Arnold and
a band of soldiers forced their way over almost insurmountable
obstacles through the Maine woods to capture Montreal, Quebec, and the
other Canadian strongholds. Historians have followed their track,
carefully noting every detail of their march, recording what they
suffered and what injuries they inflicted, and that, too, though the
expedition failed of its end and many a fair young life was lost in
vain. Certainly, we can well afford to follow the pilgrimage of two
soldiers of the cross fully as heroic, carrying to those otherwise
perishing the news of life and salvation.

Sybil Jones was thirty-two years old when she made this visit; she was
in delicate health, and obliged to leave her two young children, James
Parnell and Narcissa, behind; but her whole soul was in the work, and
she writes as she would have done when years had fully developed her.
In this and her other diaries there often occur expressions which to
the frequent readers of Fox and the early missionary Friends may sound
stated and formal, but there is a life pervading the whole which shows
conclusively to a thoughtful person that these phrases are not forms,
but words clearly expressive of what she felt burning in her heart,
and they add to rather than detract from the weight of her account.
There is a wonderful depth of meaning and originality in the
expressions of Friends which unfortunately is lost sight of by
continual use, just as in all language word-metaphors which subtly
picture thoughts become cold by use and lose their picturesqueness. In
reading the pages recording the earnest labors of long ago let us read
in them all that was put there by looking for the feeling and life
under the words:

"Left home with a certificate from some of my friends to visit some of
the British provinces, the 23d of 8th mo., 1840, in company with my
husband. He also has a certificate for said service. Being
disappointed in a female companion, we had either to resign the
prospect of a visit this season or proceed with no other company than
our dear friend Daniel Smiley, who, with a minute from his monthly
meeting, concluded to accompany us to Nova Scotia. It was a trying
case, but, feeling as though the present time was the right time, we
informed the committee appointed by the monthly meeting for the
purpose of providing us with suitable company, how it was with us.
They met with the elders, and informed us of their conclusion, which
was that they thought best for us to proceed if it seemed like the
right time, as we had informed them. We had to proceed on the prospect
of apprehended duty under discouraging circumstances, yet I trust with
a humble reliance on Him who hath said, 'I will be a defence unto
Israel.' Being favored to resign ourselves to His direction and
protection, we felt our only strength to be in Him, feeling, too, the
consoling assurance that our dear friends we have left behind will
travail in exercises with us for the Truth's honor and our
preservation from every hurtful thing. We leave our dear children in
the best place we could find.... Above all, we have felt a humble
trust that He who never slumbers will keep them; and in remembrance of
the blessed promise, that all things shall work together for good to
them that love and fear God, I have been enabled under multiplied
discouragement to adopt the language, 'Thy will, not mine, be done.'
Blessed be His name for ever who has been with me in six troubles,
and has given me assurance that He will not forsake even in the
seventh if my place is where Mary's was of old.

"We attended two meetings the day we left--one in Windsor, the other
in Whitefield--which were very trying meetings....

"_Second day, 31st._ Arrived at Joseph Ester's in Calais; had a
favored meeting this evening in the Calvinist Baptist meeting-house.
The people here are so attached to Friends that they think it a
privilege to let us have a house for a meeting. The Baptists claimed
the privilege, and we thought best to improve it. After meeting I took
cold from the damp air so frequent in this place, and was confined to
the house till 9th mo. 4th. Proceeded to an appointment at St.
Stephen's (English side), First day, 9th mo. 6th, at two P. M., at the
Methodist house, which was a humbling season to the poor creatures,
but the eternal truth reigned over all, and I hope the 'blessed Master
of assemblies' had the honor, for it was by the might of His power
that the tall cedars of Lebanon bowed and the oaks of Bashan bent.
Nothing is too great for Him to do for us when our trust is in Him.
May it ever be placed there! Second day, 7th, had a meeting at St.
Stephen's in a Baptist house; put up at Ruggles's temperance house;
felt quite at home here; they were an interesting family. We sat with
the family before leaving them, and divine ability was given to speak
in the language of encouragement to them, assuring them that a
_little_ with the incomparable blessing of a peaceful mind was better
than hoards of gold obtained in a way to injure our fellow-creatures.
The demoralizing effects of the sale and use of ardent spirits were
lamentably felt here. The landlord told us that he was once in the
habit of keeping them for travellers and others, but became convinced
that it was wrong. It brought him into a close trial, he told us, for
this was the chief source of income. He said he prayed to his heavenly
Father to direct him what to do, and the answer was that he must carry
on the baking business. He accordingly entered into it, and with the
assistance of two or three daughters he made a good income. Oh that
all would go and do likewise who are in this iniquitous practice, that
must surely prove, if persisted in, their condemnation!

"_8th._ Parted from several of our dear friends who came to bid us
farewell, and proceeded on our journey; came about noon to Oak Bay,
parish of St. David's, a small village. Here we paused a little, but
proceeded. My mind became distressed for leaving the place without
trying to have a meeting, which I kept to myself until we had
travelled about two and a half miles, when I was obliged to request
our dear friend to turn about; which was crossing to us all, feeling
very anxious to get along, having been detained from my ill-health,
meetings, etc. beyond our expectations. But on turning toward the
place I think we all participated in the reward of peace. We stopped
at William Josling's, who met us with tears of joy. Oh may we omit
nothing required of us, but be willing to do and suffer His will who
will do all things well! This evening had a meeting in the Baptist
house. It was a solemn season, and to the honor of truth, I trust.
Lodged at William Golding's, who was in a tried state of mind owing to
entanglement with the doctrine of predestination. He spoke of the
circumstance of Pharaoh where the Lord said, 'For this same purpose I
have raised thee up;' also named the passage from the apostle, 'Hath
not the potter power over the clay, of the same lump, to make one
vessel for honor and another for dishonor?' He said that he considered
it as a temptation of the enemy, but at times could hardly keep it out
of his mind. As the subjects opened to my mind I endeavored to explain
them.... He seemed satisfied, and said he had never had so clear an
explanation before. Not feeling clear of the place without trying for
another meeting, we accepted the Methodist house, which was kindly
offered. A Universalist encountered me after meeting. I endeavored to
keep near best help. He became silent, and I think the truth sank deep
in his heart. We parted in mutual love and good feeling. He was a
member of the legislative council, a man of talents. We called on the
Methodist minister and his wife, who received us gladly; we thought
them sincere-hearted followers of Christ. Parted under a feeling of
holy relationship. Left this place for Tower Hill, in the parish of
St. David. Arrived in a lonely-looking place, very desolate, where
were a few inhabitants and a schoolhouse. There are few here who
reflect, I think, that they must die, and that it is needful to
prepare for that solemn event. We left them under serious impression,
I think. We called on a woman apparently dying, who said she was not
prepared to die; her sins were not forgiven. The family and several
neighbors present were in great distress. I felt moved to call her
attention to Jesus, who alone could help, reminding her of the
penitent thief upon the cross. Surrounding beholders were warned to
seek the Lord while in health, and not put it off till a dying bed, as
the pains of the feeble body were enough to bear, without the
indescribable pains of a wounded conscience. We called again on the
sick woman, who seemed a little revived. I felt drawn to impart some
words of encouragement, also to supplicate our heavenly Father on
behalf of all present. My dear husband imparted some words of
encouragement to her. We then left her bedside, where extreme poverty
and want were strikingly apparent, with some assurance that she would
find forgiveness and go in peace. We proceeded to meeting. A large
number of thoughtless mortals were assembled. We had to travail in
deep exercises for the awakening of life. Dear husband supplicated for
divine aid, which was mercifully granted. Truth finally obtained the
victory. It is the Lord's doing and marvellous in our eyes.

"_15th._ Had a meeting at Bearing in a schoolhouse at the fourth hour,
and one at Mehanas, parish of St Stephen's, at seven--the last a truly
contriting season. I proceeded, accompanied by my dear husband, to
visit some public-houses and places where liquor is sold, and to visit
some serious people. This work of apprehended duty was most
humiliating to the poor creature, but cheerful submission clothed my
mind with sweet peace. We were treated kindly by all, and all
expressed their thankfulness to us for calling, and received civilly
what we had to deliver to them, saying they knew the right, but were
unwilling to do it. Not feeling clear of these parts without a meeting
with the Congregationalists at Calais, though I thought it probable
that they would not grant it, I informed our company of it, who
encouraged me to attend to the opening. Accordingly, a messenger was
despatched, and returned word that they were expecting to meet in the
evening for a prayer-meeting, and would cheerfully give up the meeting
to us without a single objection. The Lord will make a way where there
appears to be no way. In the evening we met with them, and had a good
meeting, mutually satisfactory.

"_17th._ Sat down at the house where we were staying with the family
at meeting hour. Our little number with the family were enough to
inherit the Saviour's blessed promise, 'There will I be in the midst
of them.' We gave no notice, but two or three neighbors somehow got
information and joined our company. At first it was a stripped season.
The cloud as big as a man's hand was hardly discernible, but in the
Lord's own time He blessed us indeed. His power arose to the
contriting of all present. It was truly a refreshing time, in which we
could say, 'The Lord is my goodness and fortress, my high tower.'

"_18th._ Had a meeting at the Ledge in St. Stephen's at two o'clock.
Some of the true wrestling seed were present, who were visited in
their low dwelling-place and refreshed with the circulating influence
of divine love, which spread even to the skirts of the assembly. I am
ready to say, 'The Lord is my Shepherd, I shall not want.' 'He brought
me into his banqueting-house, and his banner over us was love.'

"_26th, which was First day._ Had a meeting in the city of St. John,
in the Methodist chapel in Germania street, at 2 P. M., and one at 6
o'clock in the parish of Portland, in the Methodist house. Several
thousand souls met with us this day, and the Lord blessed us
abundantly to the refreshing of the weary traveller toward the city of
rest. Lodged at the Methodist preacher's, William Temple, who was
truly hospitable. On the morning of the 28th went to the steamboat
bound to Annapolis, but, it being stormy, the captain deemed it
improper to put out to sea. Having our horses and carriage put on
board at high tide, and could not get them off until tide served
again, we felt some anxiety, fearing we had not done right in this
procedure, as the elements seemed against us. We met with a man named
Abial L. Brown on board, who kindly asked us to go home with him and
remain until the boat should go. We gladly accepted his invitation and
went to the house, where the family received us with affection, set
some refreshments before us, of which we gladly partook, not having
taken any breakfast and having walked some distance in the wet and
cold. After being thus refreshed and having warmed ourselves, we felt
inclined to assemble the family for a religious opportunity, which was
gladly acceded to on their parts. The season was a truly comforting
one. Afterward we inquired for a woman who had spoken to us the
evening before after meeting and manifested a great desire to have an
interview with us. From our description one of the daughters kindly
offered to try to find her, though they could not tell her name. She
made a successful attempt, and soon came with Elizabeth Girard, as she
said her name was. She was a Friend in principle, though belonging to
the Methodists. She lamented much the extravagant conformity to the
vain fashions of the world, which is at enmity to Christ--said they
had sorrowfully departed from the simplicity which marked the members
in their rise in Wesleyan days. She spoke of the spiritual worship
very clearly as that which was alone acceptable unto God. The storm
subsided at about ten o'clock. We left, accompanied by E. G., who went
to the steamboat with us. After our imparting some advice to this dear
friend, she left. At about one o'clock we left St. John's City, and in
twelve hours were across the Bay of Fundy at Annapolis. I was not very
seasick; He who holdeth the waters in His hand preserves us yet.
Little vital religion is felt in this part of the heritage. The people
here have many advantages for a livelihood. The land has a rich soil,
and the Annapolis River flowing through it in the midst of an
extensive valley, where many of its farms stretch along its banks, the
rich products may be borne through the river into the Bay of Fundy to
distant parts. Thus was a kind Providence bountifully blessed, but a
worldly spirit is prevailing among them.

"_14th._ Held a meeting at Granville, and on the 15th went over
Young's Mountain. Again not feeling clear, had a meeting in the
evening, a memorable season of humbling contrition to most present. A
young man named James Van Blarcum, being at this meeting, was
convinced of the truth. May the Lord give him strength to suffer for
His cause, which will no doubt be the case if he proves faithful!"[3]

  [3] James Van Blarcum was at work on a house when the notice was given
  for this meeting. On hearing that a woman would preach, he said he
  would go and hear what these heretics had to say. It was a revelation
  to him; his eyes were opened, and the whole course of his life
  changed. A few years after this he came to China, so that he might
  know more of Friends and their principles. At first his family were so
  displeased at his becoming a Quaker that he was forced to leave his
  home, though he was afterward highly respected by them all. He became
  a powerful minister in the Society, and was for a number of years
  connected with Oak Grove Seminary. He was married to Eunice, sister of
  Eli Jones.

Eli and Sybil Jones attended many more meetings in the provinces,
among them Annapolis, Wilmot Mount, Wolfville, Falmouth, Pictou, and
Truro, making many weary journeys, some days riding as much as
forty-three miles to hold a meeting. These long rides were attended
with many discomforts, as it was the eleventh month, and the weather
extremely raw and cold. The roads were in poor condition, and the mud
oftentimes almost impassable. Sybil Jones describes the difficulties
encountered in making their way to Truro: "Coming to two roads about
noon, we inquired of an innkeeper the direct road to our destination.
We followed his directions, found excellent roads, but, being through
a thick forest, it was rather lonely. The weather being cloudy, night
came on early, without discovering any opening in the dense forest
that encompassed us. The thought did not occur that we might be on the
wrong road until the horses began to wade very deep in mud. My husband
sprang out of the carriage to lead the horses. After proceeding a few
steps, the mire growing deeper, he ordered the carriage stopped, and
after travelling around some time in the dark he exclaimed that we
were on the wrong road--that we had come to the end of a road. Our
feelings can better be imagined than described. Strangers in a
strange land, in a vast wilderness at the end of our road, and the
night being without even starlight, I shall never forget my feelings.
We found our carriage was fast in the mire. After unharnessing the
horses, which with some difficulty leapt out on hard footing, the men
soon pried the carriage out and harnessed to return, while I stood on
a dry spot where my dear husband had placed me. I was afraid that we
had been directed there for a wicked design, when these words came to
me: 'Judah's lion guards the way, and guides the traveller home.'
After going back about fifty rods we discovered a light, and, going to
it, found that it proceeded from a little hut. The people said that we
could get across the woods, to the right road by going a quarter of a
mile, and kindly offered to go with us and show us the way. We
followed through the roughest road I ever passed. One had to hold the
carriage behind to keep it from upsetting. We arrived safe on the
road, happy and thankful."

They had many "opportunities" in family circles, which they always
found refreshing. They met with great kindness, although in many
places they were greatly grieved to find that the spirit of the world
held sway over the people. In many cases a great controlling power was
felt, and they left believers much strengthened in the Lord to cope
with the adversary. Owing to the inclemency of the weather they deemed
it expedient to return to their homes. The homeward journey was long,
and they were often able to get but scanty accommodations; but they
ever found the "Lord a covert from the storms," and proved Him to be
"as the shadow of a great rock in a weary land." They were greatly
cheered on retracing their steps to find that the seed scattered on
their journey of love had fallen in good ground. The tavern-keeper
with whom they had labored so lovingly had given up his sinful
business, and was now keeping a strictly temperance house. Indeed,
there was now no rum sold in the town. With deep interest and love for
the dear people in the field in which they labored, and looking to God
to bless their labors, they took their way to the home where were the
dear children whom to leave was so hard.

It was the beginning of winter before they prepared to return, so that
it was impossible for them to use the carriage with which they made
the journey, and it was finally decided to put the carriage on
runners, and in this way the long return journey was made.

Some years later they went over the same ground by carriage on a
second visit to the provinces. In one place, as they were driving
along through a long wood, they were met in the road by a huge bear,
which stood its ground for some time, but finally retreated and
allowed the Friends to go on their mission. Soon after this visit Eli
Jones felt that it was his duty to go over the meetings of Canada and
to speak to the Friends there, both in the different assemblies and by
their firesides. His dear wife in the mean time was making a tour
through New England, doing the work which was laid upon her. It was a
trial for them to be so widely separated, but each was in the proper
place. Sybil Jones was brought low with sickness and forced to hasten
home. Eli Jones came from his field of service, and called on his
friend Daniel Smiley, where he found his wife very ill; but recovery
was granted, and they came rejoicing to the family at home.




CHAPTER V.

_EAST, WEST, AND SOUTH._

     "I have always been thinking of the different ways in which
     Christianity is taught, and whenever I find any way that makes it
     a wider blessing than any other, I cling to that: I mean to that
     which takes in the most good of all kinds, and brings in the most
     people as sharers."


After their return from this last visit they passed a few years in
quiet work at home, often attending the different quarterly meetings
in New England, and generally taking an annual trip to Newport to be
present at the yearly meeting, which was occasionally attended by
Friends from the West and from Great Britain, bringing thither
knowledge of far-off lands where the whitening fields called for more
laborers.

In 1845 they felt called to go over the meetings of Friends in nearly
all parts of the United States, and this and the next year were mostly
taken up with that work.

Eli Jones has since travelled over this ground many times, and has
often visited the different yearly meetings of America, but always
with quite different feelings from those which were in their hearts at
the first extensive visit. John Wilber had been "disowned" by the
Friends only two years before, and his upholders who had separated
from the Society were in many of the meetings which they visited.
There was a general feeling of sorrow that a second unhappy division
should appear in the midst of peaceful neighborhoods and the animosity
arising from fruitless argument had weakened the loving spirit and
dampened the zealous ardor of many who should have been the unbiased
spokesmen of the gospel of Christ.

Eli and Sybil Jones endeavored to draw the two parties together into
the house of faith and true belief. It is almost impossible in the
midst of church differences for any one who is interested to be
unprejudiced in his judgment. Bitterness shows itself in the hearts of
the most loving. Differences are exaggerated and words are
misunderstood for things. The main body are over-eager to win back
those they are losing, while they are inflicting deeper wounds by
their too hasty blows at what seems the heresy of their opponents, and
the latter cherish a feeling of glory in the size of the rent they are
making. These two Friends tried sweetly and gently to persuade those
differing with them that the ancient Rock was the only foundation for
their building. They visited the families of nearly all the meetings
and impressed their thoughts on the individual members. If perhaps
they accomplished little in cementing the two bodies, they did much to
strengthen the weak and to point the unsheltered to a Tower of safety
and defence. It may be interesting to follow them in a few extracts
from Sybil Jones's journal:

"Left home 9th mo., 1845, with a certificate to visit in the love of
the gospel the yearly meetings of Ohio, Indiana, Baltimore, and North
Carolina. We took passage on the steamer John Marshall from Augusta
to Boston, and from there by cars to Lynn, where we attended their
quarterly meeting. Friends in this meeting are brought under deep
exercise on account of the attendance of a committee from the
Separatists and John Wilbur in person. They took full liberty to throw
out their sentiments and bore very hard on Friends, all of which
Friends were mercifully favored to bear with true Christian patience.
After being detained seven hours the meeting adjourned until nine the
next morning, at which time they convened without interruption and
were greatly refreshed together.

"From Lynn we went to New Bedford, where a small meeting of the
Wilburites is held, some of whom we called to see and were treated
kindly, but were painfully afflicted in spirit under a sense of their
alienation from the unity of the Spirit by which we are called.
Friends here are not numerous, but upright standard-bearers. In the
morning attended Newtown meeting, which was also attended by the
Separatists (a few being here). After a time of solemn retirement
before the Lord truth rose into dominion and a contriting time it
was."

They went on by boat to New York, and from there to Philadelphia and
Baltimore, where John Meader, Thomas Willis, Richard Carpenter, and
others met them to go in their company farther west: "We reached Mount
Pleasant the day previous to select meeting, which began the 8th of
9th mo. The spirit of bitterness has made sad havoc here. The four
visiting Friends were duly proved in suffering with the suffering. No
notice was taken of any certificates on their minutes. The servants
of the Lord in attendance were of one heart and one mind, and there
were times amid the conflict that the gracious ear, I doubt not,
inclined to the fervent petition, 'Lord, save us or we perish.' A calm
stole over the troubled waves, and ability was vouchsafed to proclaim
the unsearchable riches of Christ.

"The meeting closed on the 12th of the month, and the next morning we
proceeded on our way to Cincinnati. We took the steamer New Hampshire,
and were more than five days on the Ohio River. The water was low, so
that we were often aground some hours. We had a meeting on board with
the passengers, and it was crowned by the presence of Him who holds
the waters in the hollow of his hand and causeth the mountains to flow
down at His presence. We were treated with great kindness and respect.
The first part of our passage I noticed some playing cards, which
brought me under great exercise, and after carefully examining the
subject I thought it my duty before retiring to rest to walk to the
table and express my feelings. Asking leave of them, I proceeded to
relieve my mind, which was received kindly, and I saw no more
card-playing afterward. I felt great peace in taking up this cross.
May I always be willing to do His will who leadeth safely and
sustaineth the soul amid every conflict!

"We arrived in Cincinnati on the 18th. After our arrival I informed a
Friend that the subject of visiting families had rested with great
weight upon my mind; which he communicated to some of the select
members, and it resulted in an opportunity with all of them. I opened
the subject before them, and a sweet cementing season of divine
approval was graciously afforded. They fully and feelingly united with
us and encouraged us to proceed therein."

They visited nearly all the families in that region, and felt
encouraged in the labor. She writes:

"I believe it is the design of the Head of the Church to pour out a
rich blessing on this part of His inheritance; indeed, He seems
turning His hand upon the little ones, and will, I believe, raise up
valiants among the youth, who will publish with the voice of
thanksgiving and tell of all His wondrous works."

Having done much work in Ohio and Indiana, they came over the
Alleghany Mountains, and revisited Baltimore, forming many pleasant
acquaintances with the Friends in that city, and holding meeting for
public worship, as well as visiting the families for more quiet work.
They next turned toward the South, and reached North Carolina in time
for the yearly meeting. There was much feeling here in regard to the
separation, and an epistle from the Separatists was rejected at this
yearly meeting.

In regard to the slaves, she writes:

"Vital religion is very low. Truth has fallen in the streets, and
Equity cannot enter in some places. Here is a suffering seed in many
portions of this land of slavery. Friends have borne in meekness a
noble testimony against its iniquity, and, though they often feel
disheartened at the shadowy prospect, I believe their upright example
has had, and will still have, salutary influence. The Lord has
inclined His gracious ear to the multiplied cries of the oppressed,
and those who suffer for them as being bound with them, and will
hasten the blessed day when Ethiopia shall stretch forth her hand unto
God and the oppressor shall no more oppress.

"There are so many rents and divisions throughout Christendom that
many are crying, Who shall show us any good? I earnestly desire that
these overturnings and siftings may tend to draw the people to the
living eternal Substance, to build on the ancient Foundation of all
the holy prophets and apostles. There is great need of more dedication
and a stirring up to greater diligence in this land."

The work and service in Carolina were carried on in great bodily
weakness, and often Sybil Jones was compelled to remain at home while
Eli Jones and the Friends with them attended the meetings. At the
beginning of the new year they returned to their Maine home to pass a
few quiet years before undertaking a still more extensive journey.




CHAPTER VI.

_VOYAGE TO LIBERIA._

    "Be sure they sleep not whom God needs, nor fear
    Their holding light his charge, when every hour
    That finds that charge delayed is a new death,

         *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    So intimate a tie connects me with our God."

    BROWNING.


There is wonderful harmony in God's work in the different kingdoms and
sub-kingdoms of His domain. When His method of working is resisted,
there is always harsh conflicting, and finally He removes the
obstacle; but wherever we look, so long as there is a submission to
His plan, there is never a jar, never a halt on the road to the great
end which He has in view, be it in the growth of a tree, in the motion
of a world through space, in the maturity of animal or human life, or
in the development of spiritual being. But the first rule that must be
fulfilled before He can rightly use any of His intelligent creations
is that they fully submit themselves to Him to be trained and used.
Just as the brook yields strict obedience to the gentle impulse which
moves it from its source on through its winding channel to its home in
the great ocean of waters, so all who are to be the servants of the
Most High must be _willing_ to become the instruments through which He
works, and must let Him flow through unhindered. Those whom He will
use He prepares just as much, and in a higher sense, as He makes the
lily grow--not by any toiling and spinning on its part, but by putting
a life within it which animates and builds up the whole structure; and
as the lily adorns the spot in which He puts it, so His workmen should
beautify the vineyard where He sets them.

It is a very marked fact in the lives of the two of whom I am writing
that they not only gave themselves up to be prepared by Him who was to
use them, but they also waited until He showed them where they should
work. There is work everywhere which is waiting to be done, nor does
any one do well who idly sits still until he is told just where to
begin, but God has His chosen workmen fitted on purpose for a special
place, as much as an earthly master-builder, and the time comes to
every one when it is imperative for him to hear the order which he is
to execute. The Lord spake unto Moses often, and He who made known His
ways then has power to tell His will to whom he wishes now, and the
proper messenger does not embark before the message comes.

I find in the earlier life of Eli and Sybil Jones that their great,
absorbing wish was that they might be in full harmony with Him whom
they served. They looked up to be taught, and He gave just the right
service to enlarge and strengthen their powers, so that they might be
prepared for the more difficult undertaking which now presented
itself. No one who reads the journal which follows will think they
went to Liberia prompted by their own feelings, but the service was
evidently _laid upon them_.

To understand properly the struggle through which Sybil Jones passed
before leaving her home, it will be necessary to picture to ourselves
the circumstances surrounding her nearly half a century ago. She had
grown to womanhood in a little town in Maine, having exceedingly
limited opportunities for obtaining a knowledge of the world and the
ways of men and women; she was now the mother of five children, who
needed their parents' care; she had just undergone the sorrow of
seeing many dear to her pass from earth, while still others of her
family were already on deathbeds: and now she was to go from all that
earth held dearest to her, perhaps never to see even her own country
again. To-day to travel is the ordinary course; fifty years ago it was
a rare and momentous event for one to go far from home. It would seem
most hazardous to a frail woman to go from Maine to Baltimore, there
to embark, not in a steamer with modern conveniences, but in a
sailing-packet with rough passengers and still rougher crew, for the
west coast of Africa. Let us not wonder as we read her account that
she waited long and counselled earnestly with her own heart, for if
she should go self-sent only perils insurmountable would be before
her, but on God's errands, sent by His command, she knew of nothing to
fear.

The _Friends' Review_ for 6th mo. 28, 1851, has the following
paragraph: "In the meeting of ministers and elders of New England
Yearly Meeting on Seventh day, 14th, our dedicated friend Sybil Jones
opened a prospect of an extensive religious visit to Great Britain,
Ireland, some parts of the continent of Europe, Sierra Leone, Liberia,
and some islands on the west coast of Africa and in the West Indies;
and her husband, Eli Jones, informed the meeting that he believed it
his duty to bear her company in this extensive and arduous engagement.
The subject obtained the weighty and feeling consideration of the
meeting, and, though Friends were fully sensible to the magnitude and
importance of the undertaking and of the apparently inadequate state
of her health, such a current of unity with the prospect was
experienced that all doubt of its propriety was taken away; and they
were accordingly liberated for the service. The sympathy and prayers
of their friends will unquestionably follow them."

As the most of the following year's work was in Liberia, it may be
well to speak briefly of the position and condition of that country.

Liberia is a negro republic on the west coast of Africa. Its length
along the coast is about three hundred and eighty miles, and its
entire area about twenty-four thousand square miles. Sierra Leone, the
country to the north of Liberia, was colonized by colored men from
Great Britain, assisted by such men as Grenville Sharp, Wilberforce,
and Clarkson, the first settlement being made in 1787, and composed
partly of negroes who had served in the British army during our
Revolutionary War. This and successive colonies were terribly weakened
by the death-stroke of the African fever, but they were finally
successful; and American philanthropists, who were eager to help an
unfortunate race, founded here in 1822 a colony of freedmen who might
enjoy the political and social privileges denied to them in the United
States. The town of Monrovia was founded and named after James
Monroe, then President. They landed in the midst of heathendom, and
the first years were years of struggle; but these colored men showed
that they could govern themselves. They drew up a constitution much
like the American, the first article of which read, "All men are born
equally free and independent, and among their natural inherent and
inalienable rights are the rights of enjoying and defending life and
LIBERTY;" and the fourth section, "There shall be no slavery within
this republic."

The republic has a President, Senate, House of Representatives, and a
judicial department, so that good laws are passed, explained, and
enforced. In 1847 the republic declared its independence, and was
finally in 1861 recognized by the United States as a sovereign state.
The Methodist Church established a mission here in 1833; the
Presbyterian Church followed this example, and sent J. B. Penny into
the field the same year. The American Episcopal Church was at work in
the republic as early as 1836, while the Baptists turned their
attention there in 1845, so that it was in fact a "missionary
republic." The present population of the republic comprises about
18,000 civilized negroes, chiefly of American origin, and 1,050,000
half-wild natives, who are gradually adopting a settled life and
conforming to the habits of their civilized countrymen. Professor
David Christy said in a lecture in 1855: "If a colony of colored men,
beginning with less than a hundred, and gradually increasing to nine
thousand, has in thirty years established an independent republic
amidst a savage people, destroyed the slave-trade on six hundred
miles of the African coast, put down the heathen temples in one of its
largest districts, afforded security to all the missions within its
limits, and now casts its shield over three hundred thousand native
inhabitants, what may not be done in the next thirty years by
colonization and missions combined were sufficient means supplied to
call forth all their energies?"

It was during this visit to Liberia that Eli Jones first felt his
heart fill with zeal for missionary work. One day, going to pay a
visit to President Roberts, he found a large band of fierce natives
assembled in the President's room to have him arbitrate their quarrel.
The dispute being settled peacefully, the President introduced Eli
Jones, asking a noble-looking chief if he would like to have this man
go with them to talk about God to their tribe. The prompt and earnest
answer was, "Yes, and we will build him a house if he will come and
stay." At once he saw in mind the needs of these and the thousands of
other human beings waiting for some one to bring to them the fuller
teaching of the way to a higher Christian civilization, and from that
date he was more than ever desirous to be an instrument of help.

The following poem was written by Elizabeth Lloyd[4] on the departure
of Eli and Sybil Jones for Africa:

  [4] Afterward Elizabeth Howell. She is the author of the beautiful
  lines entitled "Milton in his Blindness."

                     THE GOSPEL MESSENGER.

              "Behold, I will send my messenger."

    Dedicated to a service high and holy from above;
    Guided by the inward teaching of a heavenly Father's love,
    Listening to the soft monitions whispered in her spirit's ear,
    Answering to the call like Samuel, "Lo, my Father, I am here,"
    Child-like in her meek submission, His appointing to fulfil,
    Trusting in His strength for safety, she went forth to do His will.

    Bearing up His "ark of promise," she the weak became the strong,
    In her heart a hymn of praising, on her lips a triumph song;
    "Thou hast vanquished, O my Saviour--Thou who bore my sins for me;
    Sanctify with thy anointing sacrifices made for thee.
    As of old Thou ledst Thy children, showing them the cloud by day
    And by night the fiery pillar, so lead me along my way.

    "If I falter, if my heart be tempted by its doubts and fears,
    If my eyes, to heaven uplifted, see Thee only through their tears;
    If the clinging of love's tendrils bind my thoughts to things of earth,
    And between me and my duty come the dreams of home and hearth,--
    Oh have pity on me, Father, and if I should go astray
    Let Thy angels, Faith and Patience, point me to the narrow way.

    "Clear before me let the shining of Thy holy light arise,
    Far behind me cast the shadow of my own poor sacrifice.
    Can I doubt when I remember how the sea was cleft in twain,
    And, a wall of waters rising, left a valley in the main
    That Thy people might pass over on the golden-sanded path,
    So to sing their song of triumph, safe from the pursuer's wrath?

    "Can I fear when I remember Thou didst feed them day by day,
    With thy manna, that like hoarfrost round the tents of Israel lay;
    In the wilderness wast with them till their tarriance was o'er,
    Sweetened Marah's bitter fountain, opened Horeb's rock-bound door?
    Nay, Thy power and might, as ever, all omnipotent shall be:
    'Rock of Ages,' what can move me if I lean my soul on Thee?"

    Where the palms of Afric gather up the tropic heats by day,
    Where the jerboa and the lion in their evening shadows play,
    Where the streams are coral-bedded and the mountains gemmed with gold,
    She is bearing forth a treasure human heart alone may hold--
    Oil to pour on troubled spirits, seed to sow in barren place,
    Soothing balm of consolation, knowledge of anointing grace.

    "Ethiopia and the islands," far away her mission lies:
    From the sweet New England homestead underneath her native skies,
    To Liberia's dark-browed children, Sierra Leone's struggling band,
    She has messages from heaven, guided by the Father's hand.
    She is pointing out salvation: "Christ has no partition-wall;
    We are children of one Father, and His love redeemed us all."

    Oh, the fettered slave may hear it, sinking 'neath his weight of woe;
    In the northland, in the southland, streams of gospel love may flow.
    Not a partial gleam, a star-ray, gilding but a single night,
    Was God's thought in His creation when He said, "Let there be light;"
    Not a single soul's redemption when that piercing cry went up,
    "Eloi lama sabacthani!" ere He drank death's bitter cup.

    But a world-illuminating flood of radiance was born
    When the angels sang rejoicing o'er the earth's baptismal morn,
    And the souls of all created, and the souls of all to be,
    Are partakers of redemption by that death on Calvary,
    That divine self-abnegation of the holy Son of man--
    Thought sublime in its expansion, theme beyond our finite scan.

    Oh, the human heart a temple for the Saviour's love may be
    In all nations, in all climates, on the land or on the sea:
    Sect or color bars not entrance; only Sin her watch may set,
    Keeping Him without the portals till with dew his locks are wet;
    But He ceases not from calling, "Garnish and make clean for me;
    Drive away the money-changers, in their place let angels be."

    Through His instruments He calleth, humble tho' they be and weak,
    That the deaf ears may be opened and the sealed lips may speak,
    That the maimed may halt no longer, and the blinded eyes may see,
    And the lepers, healed and cleansed, glorifying God may be.
    Ignorance and sin are blindness, but as morning after night
    Is the heart's regeneration when God says, "Let there be light."

The following account has been selected from Sybil Jones's journal. It
was written to be published soon after their return, but publication
was delayed, and now for the first time it is made public. It will
show, as few other writings, the emotions and strivings of a sincere
seeking soul. Her journals speak little, especially in her earlier
visits, of natural surroundings and ordinary events, for her spiritual
work seemed so weighty that nothing was allowed to turn her eyes from
that:

       *       *       *       *       *

SO. CHINA, _12 mo., 1850._ Painful are the baptisms that my poor
trembling soul tries to endure patiently. Forgive me, most gracious
God, if I dare repine. Death seems again lingering on our borders, and
the remnant of a once large family must soon diminish. My worthy
father seems drawing near the silent grave, but full of bright hopes
of a mansion in the eternal city. Though well knowing that the "Judge
of all the earth" will do right, yet sad is the thought that soon we
must lose his cheerful society and instructive counsel. Oh that this
deep affliction may prove a salutary cup to the soul, though very
bitter to the taste! I learn many awful lessons while sitting by his
bedside. It is a foretaste of heaven sweetly blended with a hope of
reunion around the throne. My soul is weighed down with the prospect
of more extended service in the cause of our holy Redeemer, and
lingers tremblingly on Jordan's banks. Oh, this Jordan seems awful,
but I must descend to its bottom, and may the eternal God be my
refuge, and underneath the everlasting arms! The billows overwhelm,
and I sink in deep mire where there is no standing. My health is frail
and my spirits flag. But amid all, the unchanging Rock is my support.

_1st mo., 1851._ With the unity of my friends I performed some errands
of love in some portions of our own yearly meetings. I went forth in
fear and much weakness, but through abounding mercy the peace of God
fills my heart. In the course of this visit I had a very interesting
public meeting in Nantucket. My spirit had long lingered around that
little island of the sea, and sweet was our communion together in the
love and power of truth. Dear father met me joyfully and expressed
great thankfulness for being permitted to meet me again below. He said
his soul was filled with a Saviour's love, and he longed to go home to
his heavenly rest, to join with saints and angels in singing the song
of Moses and the Lamb for ever and ever. It was a time of blessed
communion. My mind is deeply impressed with the language uttered
frequently in my inward ear: "Go offer a sacrifice similar to my
servant Abraham's;" which causes great fearfulness to come upon me,
and a sense of utter unworthiness and inability for such a momentous
work, feeling the least and last of those who name the great Name.

_2d mo._ Dear father seems near his eternal joy. He told me to-day
that he had been thinking I had a prospect of some service in a
distant land, and wished to know if I thought of such a thing. As I
had not named it to any one, and felt restrained from speaking of it,
I hesitated, but at length opened my feelings, at which he seemed
introduced into much sympathy, and desired me to be faithful, and then
placed his hands upon me, and poured out a fervent prayer to our
Father in heaven on my behalf for His holy presence to go with me, and
His almighty power to keep me from all evil. It was a solemn season,
for the painful and yet happy thought mingled in this communion that
when my frail bark must venture on dangerous seas his would be for
ever anchored on the shore of immortal joy.

This day I have been summoned to my sainted father's bed of death. He
was happy, full of heavenly peace, and, resting his ransomed spirit on
his Saviour's breast, there breathed his life sweetly away. Our loss
is great, but his gain glorious.

_2d mo._ We have conveyed his cherished form to its last
resting-place, and Jesus was with us and presided over all. Oh let his
name be praised and his matchless goodness be adored.

_3d mo._ My dear brother Augustine, whose health has been declining
for some years, seems rapidly following father, at which our hearts
are so stricken that sorrow's bitter tears, fast falling on a sainted
father's grave, are even shared by our dearest brother, on whose cheek
flushes the crimson hectic omen of dissolution. The painful thought of
the departure of our dear brother, the last earthly prop of the
family, seemed agonizing to our hearts. While these afflictive
dispensations are meted out, my spirit dwells in the great depths of
self-abasedness, and bears upon it too the burden of a Saviour's love
to sinners in a far-distant land. Oh fix the trust of my
tempest-tossed soul immutably upon the unchanging Rock!

To-day I have returned from visiting my sweet brother. He thankfully
acknowledges the mercy of being so calm and comfortable, though
rapidly hasting to the silent grave. Soon after the Lord saw fit to
plunge his soul into deep baptism for its purification. His distress
seemed entirely indescribable, but, being encouraged to believe it was
a refining process, though thus painful, to prepare him to partake
more fully of the joys of God's salvation, his faith seemed
strengthened to hope for mercy and deliverance in the Lord's time;
which time at last came, and ushered in the dawn of a glorious morning
without clouds. His heart was full of songs of joy. His constant theme
was the unsearchable riches of Christ. One day when I entered his
sick-room, he exclaimed, "Dear sister, I am glad to see thee: I want
to tell thee the joy of my soul. I have heard the language, as
intelligibly as anything I hear with my outward ear, 'Speak
comfortably unto Jerusalem, cry unto her that her warfare is
accomplished, her iniquity is pardoned, for she hath received at the
Lord's hand double for all her sin;' and, though I am most unworthy, I
believe this is applied to me, for my peace flows like a river." He
lived about five weeks from this time, and had indeed no more
conflicts; not a doubt or a cloud obstructed the continual shining of
the glorious Sun of Righteousness. He often said that he was as full
of songs of joy as his poor heart could hold.

Deep baptisms abide me, and such a painful sense is given me of my own
inability and nothingness that I am ready to shrink from attempting to
open the subject to my friends. My poor tempest-tossed soul dwells
near the valley and shadow of death. Liberia seems to press upon my
mind, but can all this be called for at such weak hands?

I have omitted to mention in its place a testimony of my dear
brother's to me a short time before his death. In an interview
together he thus expressed himself: "Dear sister, I have thought for
some time past that the Master had a service for thee in distant
lands across the ocean, and I have this to say to thee: _Go_ with thy
life in thy hand. It should not concern thee whether thou sees thy
native land again or not: heaven is as near there as here. Go and tell
the sinner of a Saviour's love; bear the good tidings to lands afar
off. I wish you to make timely arrangements, so as to move along
quietly." I replied: "Dear brother, I do not wish to repine at my lot,
but I have been thinking that thou art soon to be released from the
conflict, and that I must remain still longer in the field, and may
make some misstep and never reach thy glorious home." To which he
replied, looking at me most impressively: "The dear Saviour will never
leave thee; He will never leave thee, but when thy work is finished he
will bring thee to meet me in heaven." This seemed a renewed evidence
that the service was required, but so deep was my sense of frailty and
entire inability to do the work that I could not believe that the
Master would select me to go on such an important embassy, a service
of such vast moment. The evidence had been very clear, but the feeling
of unfitness for the work seemed to hedge up the way entirely, and I
thought unless some person would come to me and tell me the Lord
required it and would fit me for the work, I would not take a step. I
thought I could not receive it but from some one clothed with gospel
authority; and in looking over this class I selected dear Benjamin
Seebohm, who I knew was somewhere in America. I was very much reduced
in health, attributable to painful watchings and partings, for I slept
little and had little appetite for food. Our monthly meeting day
arrived, and, though my health was so frail that I had gotten out to
meeting but little for some time, I felt an almost irresistible
impression to go. I accordingly went. As I entered the door almost the
first person I met was Benjamin Seebohm. I could not have been more
surprised at the appearance of any person. In a moment my request
rushed into my mind, and thought I, "I am caught now; I have done
wrong in asking this sign, and may the Lord forgive me and in mercy
overlook this presumption, and not grant the request unless it is His
will, in condescension to my low estate." The meeting gathered under a
great solemnity. It seemed to me that this weighty service fell upon
it, and after a time of very solemn silence dear Benjamin arose and
took up an individual case, and so exactly described my feelings and
the service that no doubt remained but the Most High had sent him with
this message to me. My soul was poured out like water and all my bones
shook. I thought all present knew it was I, though not one but my
husband had been apprised of it (it having been to me too sacred a
thing to speak of). Indeed, I thought I was a spectacle for men and
angels, while the thoughts of my heart were revealed before many
witnesses and the work of the Lord proclaimed in demonstration of the
Spirit and with power. He spoke most cheeringly--explained feelings of
poverty as preparatory to this work, that the creature may be laid low
in the dust and the blessed Name alone be magnified; said the Lord
would abundantly furnish for every good word and work; that he reduced
the creature that all dependence on itself might be entirely removed,
and our confidence firmly fixed on Himself, who is the eternal
foundation of wisdom and knowledge. I did not see Benjamin again
until the day after my dear brother's funeral, when he came to our
house and lodged. He had a meeting in the place, and precious and
heart-searching was his gospel message. He likewise had a sweet
opportunity with the mourners at the house of my lamented brother's
widow. Long will this beloved Friend and his consoling heavenly
testimony be remembered.

_5th mo., Seventh day._ To-day is our select meeting, and my trembling
spirit is loth to fly, and yet afraid to yield. Who, indeed, can know
the agony of my spirit, save

    "He who rolls the planets in their spheres
    And counts the lowly mourner's tears?"

I thought it best to name my prospect to my two oldest children, a son
sixteen and a daughter twelve. The reply of both was, "Go, mother,"
though their full hearts would hardly allow utterance until tears lent
relief. With me words were nearly lost in feeling as I stood on
Jordan's bank again to tempt its fearful tide and deeper tread beneath
its wave. I had sat down to compose my thoughts for meeting, with my
grief-worn mother, by the side of the cradle where lay (all
unconscious of the deep pangs that rent our hearts) my dear little
Grelet, about ten months old. The rest had all come in and were seated
around, when my dear James Parnell, as if fully conscious of what was
passing in his mother's heart, took a book and commenced reading the
following lines:

               "FORWARD AND FEAR NOT.

    "Forward and fear not; the billows may roll,
    But the power of Jehovah their rage can control.
    The waves are in anger, but their tumult shall cease;
    One word of His bidding will hush them to peace.

    "Forward and fear not; though trials be near,
    The Lord is thy refuge; whom shouldst thou fear?
    His staff is thy comfort, thy safeguard His rod;
    Be sober, be steadfast, and hope in thy God.

    "Forward and fear not; though false ones deride,
    The hand of the Highest is with thee to guide;
    His truth is thy buckler, His love is thy shield;
    On, then, to the combat--be sure not to yield.

    "Forward and fear not; be strong in the Lord,
    In the power of His promise, the trust of His word.
    Through the sea and the desert thy pathway may tend,
    But He who has saved thee will save to the end.

    "Forward and fear not; speed on the way,
    Why dost thou shrink from thy path in dismay?
    Thou tread'st but the path that thy Leader hath trod;
    Then forward and fear not, but trust in thy God."

So appropriate and touching were the sentiments that we were brought
into tenderness.

I have had many fears that the weight of the important visit will not
be fully valued by all my dear friends. My earnest prayer has been
that they may feel its weight as I have done, if it is of the Lord; if
not, that they may see it right to take the burden and release me. I
have this day ventured in great fear and much trembling to open my
prospect in the select meeting, and, to my trembling admiration, it
fell with solemn weight and awfulness upon the assembly. The great
Head of His own Church dispensed His holy power and presence and
condescended to be a Spirit of judgment to those who sat in judgment,
and an entire unity prevailed and cemented our hearts together in the
strong bonds of gospel fellowship and love, and the great Name was
held in reverence by those about Him. I feel somewhat relieved, and,
having cast the burden upon my friends, the return of evening finds me
trusting in my Saviour in sweet peace.

To-day is our monthly meeting, my health very frail, and my spirit
awfully bowed before the Most High. A sense of utter inability to
proceed in this momentous subject brings my soul into the dust of
death, but "I will look unto the hills from whence cometh my
strength." I was unable to attend the first meeting, and in great
bodily infirmity went to the last meeting to attend to the business
before me. I was strengthened to stand up and to open to my dear
friends the service on my mind for the Lord my God in a distant land.
It fell with great impressiveness, and yet as the gentle dew, upon the
solemn assembly, and all present seemed to have a sweet feeling of
unity and sympathy. The mountains indeed flowed down at the presence
of the Lord, at the presence of the God of Jacob.

To-day our quarterly meeting convened, and it was signally owned by
the holy Head. In and over the first meeting was a sweet solemnity,
which lost none of its sweetness after separation to transact the
weighty business of the Church, which to me never seemed more weighty.
I was mercifully helped again to spread the important prospect before
the Church, which received its full and cordial unity, and many living
testimonials were given forth to the power and goodness of Him whose
ways are not as our ways. My heart was reverently bowed before Him who
makes a way through the roaring billows of discouragement and causeth
the mountains to flee away at His presence before the footsteps of His
little ones.

_6th mo., Newport._ Arrived on the island last evening, and to-day I
have to bring my prospect before the Church in its select yearly
meeting capacity. While I have not a doubt but the great Master
requires me to make the sacrifice of laying the burden upon my friends
for their disposal, I feel a fervent desire that we may not be
permitted to proceed unless it is the Lord's will. May it please Him
in whom are the treasures of wisdom and knowledge to dispense the
spirit of wisdom and judgment to the Church, and may the awfulness of
the service, with a sense of His dread majesty, power, and holy
cementing love, mantle the whole assembly! I took my seat with my
friends as a weaned child, passive in His holy hands whose will only I
wished to know and do, with great fear upon my spirit. The Lord helped
me to declare unto the Church what seemed to be His holy will who
declareth unto man what are His thoughts, who maketh the morning
darkness and treadeth upon the high places of the earth. The Lord, the
God of hosts, is His name. A solemn awe pervaded the assembly, and at
the place of prayer each spirit seemed to wait until a door of
communication was opened by Him who openeth and none can shut. The
mind of the blessed Head through the eternal Spirit was given forth in
many living testimonials. Great unity prevailed. The prophetic
declaration seemed applicable: "God came from Teman and the Holy One
from Mount Paran; His glory covered the heavens, and the earth was
filled with His praise." My soul returns unto her rest with songs of
joy. The endorsements placed upon our certificates by the select
meeting of ministers and elders have been read to-day, which brought
the subject again before the meeting, and it proved the calling of a
solemn assembly and the charge reposed in the Church. Our beloved
Benjamin Seebohm expressed, near the conclusion, that he had never
seen the trust of disposing of these weighty affairs better redeemed
than in the present instance. The convocation was concluded in
reverent, fervent supplication by dear Lindley Murray Hoag, wherein
near access was granted to the mercy-seat. We were committed to the
holy keeping and safe guidance of the blessed Shepherd when we should
be in distant lands across the great deep, and a rich heavenly
blessing was implored upon our tender children, whom for Jesus' sake
we must leave behind.

This evening we had a youth's meeting, which, as it reflected no glory
upon the creature, may have brought honor to the Creator. Our yearly
meeting was highly blessed with the holy Presence, which continued
through its several sittings. On leaving the island the language of my
heart was, "Thou, O my Father, hast dealt very graciously with the
last and least and most unworthy." But now comes the bitterness of
death, to leave all most dear in this life and go with our lives in
our hands at the bidding of the blessed Master; but my earnest prayer
is that we may be cheerful givers, for the Lord loveth such. Every
step thus far has been taken in the ability which He gives us. As He
has ordered our steps, so may we be fully His.

After reaching home we began making arrangements for embarking. It
seemed best to break up the family, as no suitable person could be
found to take care of the dear children, and we desired in this thing
to be directed by Him who hath called us to His work. Our eldest son
intends going to Haverford, a Friends' college in Pennsylvania, with
which we are well satisfied. As he is at the tender age of sixteen, we
had felt much solicitude as to his place and associates, and this
prospect seems favorable, as he will have good company, and dear
Marmaduke and Sarah Cope of Philadelphia have most kindly offered to
take particular charge of him.

Many have been the marks of divine regard to us and ours. We had often
thought of Liberia on the western coast of Africa as our first step,
but thought we must of necessity go by way of England; but in the
midst of our arrangements we received intelligence that the Liberia
packet was daily expected from the coast, and would return soon--that
it was the safest and most comfortable conveyance, and that it would
stop for a few days to two weeks at most of the principal ports on the
African coast, so that we could lodge on board every night; which was,
with little exception, an entire protection from the acclimating fever
so dangerous to the life of a Northerner. We sought in this exigency
divine direction, as we must leave so much sooner than we had planned.
This brought the final parting so near that heart and flesh seemed to
fail, and the dear children seemed much grieved and cast down at this
sudden wrench, as it were, of heart from heart in the most tender and
endearing relations. Our dear brother Cyrus seemed on the verge of
eternity: we had hoped to have seen him quietly at rest ere we left
our native land, and to have more time to visit our other beloved
relatives. We were brought very low, even into the deeps, before the
most high God, and there in fervent supplication raised our hearts to
heaven in this our hour of need; and the watchword was, "Gird on thy
sword, take thy helmet and march; the Lord hath need of thee now, for
the enemy mustereth his host, and my soldiers must be in readiness."
Impalpable mountains seemed to intervene, and high and fearful swelled
Jordan's deep waves. In this great strait the language was
intelligible: "Stand still and see the salvation of God."

_7th mo. 14th, Second day._ We received a telegraphic despatch that
the ship would sail the 20th, which would occur the next First day.
Our time seemed limited indeed. To-day our monthly meeting occurred,
and it was the greatest solemnity, I think, ever witnessed there. Then
came the pangs of parting; the ties of consanguinity and gospel
fellowship were being suddenly and unexpectedly torn asunder; we might
meet again, but probably it was a final separation to some present.
Our hearts were poured out like water before the Lord and for each
other's welfare. Several touching testimonies were given forth--I
might safely say as the Spirit gave utterance. Dear James Owen from
Indiana delivered a solemn and pathetic message touching the case of
our immediate departure. Our prayers were that our departure from
those with whom we had so long endeavored to labor faithfully might
stimulate them to greater dedication and faithfulness.

_17th._ Making arrangements for our expedition, believing it to be a
divine opening for us, entirely without our aid or concern. This P. M.
we must leave and proceed as far as Vassalboro' to take the cars
to-morrow morning. What tongue can tell my soul's anguish as the tears
flowed fast from each child's almost bursting heart? Had it not been
for the gentle accents of a Saviour's love, "It is I, be not afraid;
leave thy children with me," I could not have left them. We took our
dear children to the home of dear husband's father, two of whom--viz.
Sybil Narcissa and Richard Mott--we intended to take to Providence
School. There we must bid adieu to dear brother Cyrus, father and
mother, brothers and sisters, and friends who had collected to take
their leave. Here we had concluded to leave our little Susan Tabor,
about three years and a half old, who would often look in my face and
exclaim with a touching look that reached my very heart, "Don't leave
me, mother, thy little daughter; I will be a nice little lady; thee
won't leave me, will thee?" The strength of Israel was my confidence
at that moment. Our dear brother took our hands, and after pronouncing
the words, "The Lord be with you!" he whispered the last and sad
farewell while all around were weeping. We then took an affectionate
leave of all present, and left the sweet scenes of childhood for
perhaps many a year. Then proceeded to our friend Daniel Runnel's,
where was our Eli Grelet, not quite a year old. My heart yearned over
this lovely boy, whom I must cast from me. Then we separated, taking
the train for Providence School and dear James Parnell, who was to
take us to the cars. We arrived at our esteemed friend Alton Pope's,
where many Friends had collected, among whom were the Indiana Friends
and dear John D. Lang and wife. We sat down together for a little
time, and great tenderness and solemnity prevailed. I have lost two
dear brothers and five sisters and an estimable father, but never did
such hallowed, solemn, and unearthly feelings steal over my
overcharged heart as on this memorable day. We rose early in the
morning, and after taking leave of our much-loved friends, Alton and
Theodate Pope, hastened to the cars. Dear James seemed more cheerful
than I supposed he could be. At length we reached the dépôt, and the
painful moment came to bid adieu to our dear child; his bosom swelled
with emotion and fast fell the bitter tears. With a full heart I
pronounced my last parting blessing: "Dearest boy, farewell; God bless
and keep thee! I make this request as though it were my last: give thy
heart to thy dear Saviour now in thy youthful days; He will comfort
thy heart when we are far away." We arrived at New Bedford the same
evening. On our way we paused a few minutes at Portland, met our dear
friends R. and Sarah Horton, had a parting opportunity at the dépôt.
Next stopped a few minutes at Lynn, and several friends accompanied us
to Boston, where we had to wait about an hour, which was very
pleasant, as the company of those dear friends was very cheering to
us. They brought us several packages of useful and interesting things
for our comfort on board of the ship. Our hearts were touched with
grateful feelings for their Christian kindness. At New Bedford lives
my only sister; her health is so frail it is not probable (should we
return) that she will survive till that time.

_18th._ This morning we took the cars for Providence. The children
seemed to forget their trouble in their interest in new objects. We
stopped about four hours in Providence, where we left the children and
parted with our friends Joseph and Sybil Estes, who had accompanied us
from Vassalboro'. We took our leave of the dear inmates of the
Friends' school in a collective capacity--a very solemn season, our
two little ones being with them. We bowed before the Most High and
commended them to the care of Him whose mercy endures for ever. The
dear children, with several others, went with us to the dépôt, where
dear Samuel Boice and wife joined us. We gave a farewell glance to
all. The dear little ones' faces were bathed in tears. Here it would
be proper to say that we received the kindest attention from the
superintendents, Silas and Sarah Cornell, and many others. These dear
friends exerted themselves to procure some more needful things for us
with great interest. Having so little time, and going by the way of
Africa, we were lacking in some things which they most kindly
supplied. May Heaven's blessings rest upon them!

_7th mo. 20th, 1851, Chesapeake Bay, on board Liberia packet._ We
arrived in Baltimore about ten o'clock last evening, and found the
ship had left the wharf and stood off about eight miles waiting for
us, and that we should be expected to be on board this morning. Having
taken a solemn and affecting leave of the last familiar face in our
native land, we retired to our room, and, though now separated from
all most dear, we felt the loving presence of our Saviour.

_21st._ Made some arrangements to fit up our little "floating home" to
make it as agreeable as possible. Captain and officers very kind, and
all seem inclined to try to make us happy.

_22d._ Retired to our cabin after breakfast to read a portion of
Scripture and to wait upon the Lord. I felt drawn to supplicate the
throne of grace for all on board our frail bark, that the God of our
lives would keep us in safety and bless and protect our precious
children in our absence. Our time is mostly taken up in writing, as
the pilot will return at the capes. Dear Eli is engaged a part of the
day in teaching the emigrants to read, cipher, etc. We have some
interesting conversation with them, and find them as a whole rather
intelligent, and even pious.

_24th._ Calms and head winds seem to be our daily portion, but the
heavenly Pilot holds the ship and the winds in His holy hands.
Teaching the emigrants and writing to our friends keep us busy; health
comfortable.

_26th._ To-day brisk wind; we expect to pass the capes. At six o'clock
the pilot-boat came alongside and took off the pilot and a large
package of letters. We shall not hear from home or have any means of
sending intelligence until we reach Africa.

_27th._ We behold another morning in safety. It is First day, but
fearful has been the night. We had a thunder-shower with furious
winds. The rain fell in torrents and the thunder rolled deep, while
the vivid lightning seemed to envelop the ship in liquid fire. Our
trembling vessel would dash into ocean's depths apparently, and then
rise upon the mountain wave. We were brought to test ourselves whether
we were willing to make our graves in the caverns of the deep or gird
on the armor for the Lord's battles. To-day we entered the Gulf
Stream. We are making ten miles an hour. We are so enfeebled with last
night's rolling that we are neither of us able to sit up. The approach
of night again fills us with apprehension. The night again stormy. We
looked up in that hour of dismay and found an eye to pity and an arm
to save.

_29th._ Stormy night, exceedingly rough; not safe to stay in our
berths. With loss of appetite we are somewhat reduced. Felt somewhat
as Noah's weary dove that found no place of rest above the cheerless
waters.

_30th._ Boisterous weather still, but we are rapidly nearing Africa's
distant coast. Our helpless souls hang on Thee.

_31st._ Rather more calm. My dear Eli is improving, though still
feeble. A number of sweet little birds cheered us to-day, following
the ship some distance. I think that they deserve a better name than
"Mother Carey's chickens." At eleven o'clock we took our seats in our
cabin (it being meeting-day at home) to try and worship Him who
remains with them. Our spirits refreshed in blessed communion. At the
evening sacrifice we had a fresh assurance of the angel of the Lord's
presence. Delightful evening, every sail spread with fair wind. At
twelve o'clock, 1360 miles from Cape Henry. We feel our infirmities,
but can sing of the Lord's judgement and mercies.

_8th mo. 2d._ We have proceeded rapidly since leaving the capes; this
is the seventh day since leaving them, and we have gone two thousand
miles. Providence has sped us on our way. We find some very
interesting persons among the emigrants, with whom we converse freely;
we find them engaged to serve their God with diligence and love.

_First day._ A most charming morning. At eleven o'clock we sat down in
our little meeting. We have felt a very painful exercise since being
on board this ship. Our souls have been lifted up to God alone, that
He would order our service for Him among the inmates of the ship, and
the time, not daring to move (whatever we may suffer with the burden
upon our spirits) until the command is given: for this we wait in
watchfulness and prayer. After meeting it seemed best to us to try for
a meeting, and, no obstacle appearing, at the time appointed nearly
all assembled, and the short silence was blessed with His presence who
is invisible. With awfulness and fear we ventured to make known our
requests, and our dependent souls were made joyful in the house of
prayer. Great solemnity pervaded the assembly, and these desperate
spirits seemed contrited and made to fear. We were comforted with the
spirits of a little band of humble followers of the Lord in this
meeting, whom doubtless the Saviour loves. So great was my relief
after this meeting that the language of my soul was, "Return unto thy
rest, for the Lord hath dealt bountifully with thee." Last night
seemed sweet and peaceful. We heard neither oaths nor imprecations,
with which our ears had been saluted many painful nights before our
meeting. Fearfulness came upon us often when we heard the great Name
blasphemed, and such angry threats that we thought there was great
danger of their killing each other. A great change is apparent,
especially with the captain. May the Ancient of Days be honored for
His power!

_5th._ This morning the ocean is very smooth, scarcely a breath to
ruffle the blue. We have made little progress for two days. A sail has
been just in sight since First day P. M. We have been a little
suspicious of it. This morning we discovered a small boat approaching;
there was considerable conjecture with regard to the business of the
little messenger. She came alongside, containing six men, one of whom
tremblingly ascended the side of the ship, assisted by a rope. He
looked around, apparently with mingled emotions of hope and fear; his
first idea must have been that we had a cargo of slaves. He was met
with looks of kindness, and informed us that the first mate was ill
and that he came to obtain some assistance. It seemed they had been as
shy of us as we of them, but at length necessity had driven them to
the hazardous attempt. We had a colored physician on board, but he
seemed very unwilling to go with them, still fearing that some trick
might be played upon us. My husband offered to go with them, for which
my heart rejoiced, for I had felt a secret distress for them, and
thought we might be becalmed for some good to them. The little boat
left the ship, and had not rowed half the distance before a brisk fair
wind arose and filled our flagging sails, and away we made for the
disturbed vessel, and soon came alongside. The boat returned for
medicine, etc. It afforded my dear Eli great satisfaction to give them
a little assistance from our small stock of comforts. To nearly all of
us it seemed a providential interposition. A strong breeze now wafts
us on with thankful hearts, I trust. The ship proved to be a whaler
from Provincetown, out seven months. They wished for some books, and
we had the pleasure of furnishing them with several interesting books,
tracts, and papers, with which they seemed delighted. To-day we take
the trade-winds, so that we have a fair prospect of a quick voyage;
for this we feel we depend on Him who commands the wind. It seems that
all hearts on board try to manifest their kindness and respect.

_6th._ Every sail filled with a delightful breeze. Were greatly
refreshed together in reading and meditation upon Him who is our only
crown of rejoicing in our low estate. Ability was granted to ask a
blessing on the dear children. We have a very pleasant company--have
not heard a profane word since the meeting. I never saw so great a
change in a ship's crew. It is indeed the Lord's doings.

Saw a nautilus to-day. It spread its thin sail to catch the rising
breeze. The sailors call it a "Portuguese man-of-war." Dear Eli is
quite seasick to-day. At eleven o'clock sat down with as many
emigrants as could be comfortably seated in our cabin, to try to
worship Him who graciously sustains us upon the rolling deep. It
proved a season of heavenly communion.

_8th mo. 3d, Sixth day_, lat. 33° 53' N., long. 36° W. A school of
porpoises played round the ship for some time this morning. They
seemed delighted at amusing us, jumping several feet out of the water
and darting to and fro. We seemed nearing the shores of such intense
interest to most on board, and, though a sea-life is not desirable, I
do not feel anxious about reaching Africa. Great and fearful is our
responsibility, and dangers seen and unseen are in this untrod path.
May the God of our salvation have mercy upon us and direct our every
step!

_First day, 10th._ Unable to sit up this morning. Dear Eli sat by my
birth during meeting-hour, and our hearts were raised in aspiration
heavenward. P. M. Able to sit up toward evening, and we concluded that
it would be best to try for a meeting, which collected a little after
sunset under a clear sky and a full moon, all canvas filled. The moon
shed a mild intermingled gleam through the shrouds of our gallant
ship, and delightful indeed were our meditations. The silence was at
length broken by dear Eli in a feeling testimony to the universality
of divine grace. The people were encouraged to forsake their sins and
come to Jesus the Saviour of the world. It was a sweet, heavenly
season. We felt to tell them that it was not a light thing to be thus
remembered by Him who rolls the planets in their spheres. A great
change is apparent in all on board. Everything is almost as we could
wish, compared with what it was when we came. May we do nothing to
diminish the reputation of our beloved Society!

The captain says that we are about six hundred miles from the coast of
Africa in a straight line.

_14th of 8th mo._ Saw a whale to-day: shall pass the tropic of Cancer
to-night; chilly. About two days' sail from Cape Verde.

_17th._ Cool and pleasant, very different from expectation in a
tropical climate. I have been ill to-day; dear Eli somewhat better. It
being First day, we were present in spirit with our friends at home in
their meeting. Spoke a ship, and the captain and dear Eli took boat
and went off to her. She proved to be the St. Paul, bound to Cowes. We
sent a few lines home by her.

_20th._ A dreadful storm is on the main, and our ship is like a leaf
in the winds. Several sails are split, and we may lose all before
morning.

_21st._ My dear Eli is not able to sit up much, which saddens me.

_25th._ But little progress. I do not feel much anxiety but for my
dear Eli, who seems failing every day from loss of appetite and want
of things to make him comfortable, and for the poor emigrants, many of
whom suffer from the same causes.

_26th._ This evening there is quite an excitement on board. My Eli
discovered land; the captain thinks it may be Grand Cape Mount. The
captain just called us on deck and a novel scene presented itself. Our
ship seemed gliding through a stream of liquid fire, while each
crested wave shed a beautiful silver light amid sparkling gems that
bespangled the whole face of the deep. Thinking we might soon reach
land, it seemed right to have another opportunity with the emigrants,
which we obtained this P. M. We felt an impression that some one
present would soon be taken home to rest in Jesus. It proved a
satisfactory season, thankfully received by them.

_28th._ This morning early we were saluted with the joyful
intelligence that we were near Cape Mesurado. We hastened on deck, and
once more beheld the "dark green robes of earth," which never seems so
lovely as after a sea-voyage. The noble promontory is nearly covered
with a thick forest, interwoven with luxuriant vines that hang in rich
drapery from the branches of the trees, and the stately palm tree
rears its lofty head high in air, like some tall cliff. It was Nature
in her chastest charms arrayed. Soon my thoughts were diverted from
this deeply interesting scene to one as novel as can well be imagined.
The native canoes appeared, manned by natives without clothing. Soon
the water seemed almost alive with them, and the air rang with strange
sounds. We made ready to go on shore. I cannot describe my feelings at
this moment, but, like Peter, I thought that I must call nothing
common or unclean that God had cleansed. The captain, dear Eli, and I
were soon seated in one of our boats manned by natives, and in a few
minutes passed the bar in safety and reached the city of Monrovia,
just in rear of the cape, and with grateful emotions set our feet on
the shores of Africa.

B. V. R. James welcomed us to the shore, and kindly invited us to go
to his house and refresh ourselves. We proceeded up a gentle ascent
through the city as far as his house--were pleasantly received; took
breakfast and dined with them. Called on President Roberts and his
wife, who received us cordially; delivered our papers and letters;
they kindly invited us to call again and make our home with them if
agreeable. Called also at James B. McGill's, a very interesting
family, and returned before nightfall to our floating home. It has
been a fine day, though in the midst of the rainy season.

_29th._ Just returned from shore; had a pleasant day and a delightful
walk. Took breakfast at James McGill's, who with his pleasant wife
entertained us very cheerfully. Dined with Beverly Wilson, a Methodist
minister, who with his wife interested us highly. Visited the
Alexander high school, B. V. R. James teacher. It contained seventy
scholars, fifty of whom were present. They reflected credit on their
competent teacher by their advancement and circumspect demeanor. We
thought them as good scholars as those of the same age in America. We
imparted some religious instruction and suggested some trifling
improvements, with which the pious teacher and pupils seemed pleased.
One is our Master, even Christ, and all we are brethren.

_30th._ Morning rainy; dear Eli has been ashore; thinks the place
increases in interest every time he visits it. He has made two
appointments for to-morrow, one at the Methodist and one at the
Baptist house.

_31st, First day._ Morning rainy, but we thought best to try and meet
our appointments. Arrived in time, but got somewhat wet; changed
clothes. We felt it to be no ordinary occasion as we passed through
the throng to our seats and then mingled in sweet and sacred communion
for the first time with dear brethren and sisters in a distant land,
for whose souls we had long borne the burden of a dying Saviour's
love. The silence was impressive, and the streams of that river that
gladdens the heritage of God circulated sweetly through the assembly.
The holy fervor of gospel love filled our hearts to the great
abasedness of the creature. Ability was given us to show forth that
living faith that works by love to the purifying of the heart, and to
point out the difference between this saving faith and a dead faith
that the world and its spirit will overcome. We were melted together
as the heart of one man. The Lord reigned gloriously. At the close of
this solemnity the people wished to get our hands, giving
demonstrations of great joy at meeting us, and bidding us welcome to
their shores with great blessing. Dined at James B. McGill's. Our
afternoon meeting was increasingly interesting. We were led to explain
the nature of that worship which only can be acceptable to God.
Returned to our ship with the testimony sealed upon our heads. Not
unto us, but unto Thy great Name, be all the honor.

_9th mo. 1st._ Morning rainy; had to remain in the packet; evening
more pleasant. Passed our time in writing, reading, etc.

_9th mo. 2d, Third day._ Morning rainy; dear E. went ashore. He seems
quite improved, which is very cheering. We feel quite at home on
board, though far away dwell the hearts bound to us by the tenderest
ties.

_3d._ We went on shore and called on Sarah Smith, a pious colored
woman who keeps a place of refreshment; then called on President
Roberts and wife, and had a very interesting conversation on several
subjects relative to the interest and welfare of the republic. The
President was truly courteous and affable. In his manner there is an
elegant simplicity adorned with Christian piety. He said, "I am truly
thankful the Lord has sent you here, and for your prayers for us in
your native land." His wife's highest ornament is piety, which is
sweetly cherished in her gentle heart. After dinner, accompanied by
the President and his wife, we repaired to the Presbyterian place of
worship (a previous appointment). The house was crowded, but orderly
and still. It was given us to deal very plainly with the people.

_4th._ Raining; dear E. went on shore and visited a native town, with
which he was much interested. I felt the privation of remaining in the
ship; I was somewhat impatient at being confined in my cage-like
cabin. The deck being very wet, I was somewhat circumscribed, but in
settling up the day's accounts I did not feel fully satisfied, and my
earnest prayer is that I may keep my mind stayed on the Lord.

_5th._ Just returned from shore; have enjoyed the day much. Visited a
private school taught by Georgianna Johnson, and suggested some
improvements. Called on President Roberts and wife (they being
directors of two or more female benevolent societies) to obtain their
consent to meet those societies at their own time and place. We met
them the following day, and had a very interesting conference.
Suggested some improvements, such as ameliorating the condition of
those immigrants, many of whom are destitute of employment or not
willing to work, who lead a wretched life of indolence and
consequently vice. The President said that it was a source of much
solicitude to himself; he was fearful of the continuance of this state
of things. We suggested a house of industry. This struck him
pleasantly as the very antidote needed. Called at George R. Ellis's,
who is a magistrate. We were kindly received.

_6th._ Went on shore; had a very interesting opportunity with the
Ladies' Association (some of the most intelligent females in Liberia).
They managed their business in a correct and orderly manner, and by
their records and accounts show that they are doing much for suffering
humanity here. The emancipated slaves are sent here nearly penniless,
except their portion of land, which is an unbroken forest, and six
months' provisions, which are exhausted during the process of
acclimating. The fever reduces them much. It is the judgment of the
most intelligent residents of Liberia that it is best for the
immigrants soon after their arrival to take up their farms and work a
small portion of each day, clearing their land and planting sweet
potatoes, and with the abundance of fruit growing around them they
could live comfortably. This has been tried by some, and far less die.
With the fever much depends on keeping up the courage; there is but
little chance for those who abandon exercise.

_7th._ We went on shore at an early hour; took breakfast at Uriah
McGill's. Went to a First-day school containing ninety-four children,
twenty-five of whom are natives; the latter are not able to read the
Bible. At half-past two attended a meeting for the children. The
Baptist house, being the largest, was selected, and was well filled;
they were orderly and attentive. I trust impressions were made that
will never be effaced.

_8th._ E. went on shore. In the afternoon he returned with our valued
friend James B. McGill and two colored ladies, with their servants,
the latter going to Greenville, Sinon county. We left the shores of
Monrovia with a comfortable evidence that our labors were acceptable
to Him who had sent us forth. We were quite cheered with the prospect
of saying that we had personal acquaintances in Liberia.

_9th._ Anchored in Bassa Cove. Thank God for the blessings and mercies
that have attended us on this embassy of love!

_11th._ Came to anchor off Greenville.

_13th._ Went on shore and made arrangements for meetings--in the
morning at the Baptist house, in the afternoon at the Presbyterian.
The Methodist minister cordially invited us to attend the afternoon
sitting of the quarterly meeting, saying the meeting should be at our
disposal to worship in our own way. We were refreshed in the Lord.

_First day, 14th._ Had good meetings. At the Presbyterian house many
stood about, not able to get inside. We were blessed together in
heavenly places. Dined at Judge Murray's.

_Second day, 15th._ Set sail for Cape Palmas; anchored on account of
head winds. I fear we cannot visit the town, Settra Kroo.

_16th._ We are in sight of Settra Kroo still. May the Lord keep us in
safety!

_17th._ At anchor off Nasma Kroo; went on shore; called at the only
two colonist houses there, then visited the native village. Here a
strange scene presented itself: the females were entirely naked,
except a small covering about the loins, mothers with their naked
infants on their backs, from one month old and upward; lasses with
their skin painted indelible black and shining with palm oil, with
which they are besmeared, came in crowds and surrounded us, gazing at
me, crying, "White mammy;" others ran from us with fear. We gave the
mothers some crackers, and soon every one that could get a child
(sometimes quite as big as the pretended mother herself) had one
packed on her back to get a cracker also. They are a very shrewd
people--fine forms and well-proportioned. We visited the queen, who
has a separate room in the king's house. He was absent; she received
us quite graciously: her body was striped with white paint. We thought
best to try for a meeting. The king's house was selected. One of the
natives undertook to notify the meeting. He passed on before us,
stopping at each house, and very soon the people might be seen running
from every point toward the house where they were to have a "God
palaver," as they call it. A number gathered. A native named Giando
undertook to interpret for us. They were attentive--promised with
clamorous acclamation that they would do as we told them. The meeting
was relieving, and we have great cause for gratitude. Before we left
the village several females had painted their faces white, which made
them look ridiculous in the extreme.

_18th._ Set sail for Cape Palmas again. Came to anchor after sunset.

_19th._ Went on shore; called at Dr. McGill's; they received us
pleasantly. He occupies the vacancy made by the lamented death of
Governor Rupworm. Dined at F. Burns's, the Methodist minister. We
were interested in the information they gave us of the colony and
natives. The latter have three villages very compact, and with all the
heathen customs, the most disgusting of which is their unclad forms
that are seen in every direction, forming a striking contrast to the
neat dwellings, decent clothing, and intelligent countenances of the
colonists. On the outermost point of this high promontory is a
lighthouse, and about it the colonists' houses stand surrounded with
fine gardens and the beautiful African fruit trees. Made an
appointment at the Methodist house for to-morrow.

_20th._ We have not been able to meet our appointment, the swell is so
great. We have been somewhat disappointed in not getting to town, but
are sure that all is well under the supervision of Him who commands
the elements in His own consummate wisdom.

_21st, First day._ Beautiful morning; got safely on shore, and had a
large meeting in the Methodist house. In the sweet covenant of peace
and joy the meeting closed.

_22nd._ Got on shore, and rode in a small carriage drawn by natives
about two miles into the country, accompanied by Dr. McGill and his
amiable wife. Delighted with the scenery. The dwellings of the
colonists are comfortable, but most of their farms are uncultivated;
very rich soil. We have a strong apology to make for the indolence in
Africa: most of the settlers hitherto are emancipated slaves, worn out
with hard service in the land of oppression, from which they have been
sent after their spirits and strength are wasted by unrequited toil.
Then they meet this enervating climate. A number of energetic
husbandmen should be sent out with every colony to inspire them.
Manual-labor schools would doubtless succeed here, but the present
operations must fail to arrive at the happy results anticipated by the
philanthropists.

_23d._ Went on shore and had a most interesting meeting with the
children. Many youthful eyes were bedewed with tears as they heard the
glad tidings of a Saviour's love.

_24th._ Had a meeting at the Episcopal house. The Lord was with us. We
gave books and tracts.

_25th._ We were saddened by the conviction that some of us would meet
no more on earth. We left Cape Palmas with an additional interest for
Africa. We feel that we are only the pioneers--that the Lord will send
yet more honorable members of his household to this land.

_27th._ Very weak. Came to anchor off Sinon. My E. went on shore, but
I thought best to remain, write, and arrange for to-morrow. E.
returned wearied, but much delighted with his excursion into the
country.

_28th._ Went early on shore, and, taking our vessel's boat and crew,
proceeded up the Sinon River about two miles to a colonist settlement.
Our meeting was well attended and the word was heard with gladness. We
walked in a footpath some distance in a smart shower, and were wet and
much fatigued. Rested and dried our clothes a little before the
meeting. The people more industrious than any we have seen before in
Liberia.

_30th._ Went on shore; had a meeting in the Baptist house. It was a
final parting and a heavenly season. No doubt that we shall have the
prayers of these dear people.

_10th mo. 3d._ Anchored this P. M. off Bassa.

_4th._ Went on shore, but with much difficulty, it being the worst bar
on the coast. We proceeded along the coast until we found a place to
land in safety. The natives managed with great skill, and as soon as
we came near land they sprang into the water and caught me, and in a
minute set me down high and dry, seemingly highly gratified,
exclaiming "Mammy no wet." We called at a little cabin and got a cup
of tea made, and when the rain subsided we proceeded to the town.
Beautiful country, covered with orange trees and guava, but farms
sadly neglected. I think the plough is needed as much as missionary
labors, for without the former the latter cannot accomplish much.

P. M. Very rainy; had a ride in a hammock, or rather a substitute for
one--a piece of native cloth with the ends fastened together with
ropes, and a pole passed through loops; the poles rested on the
natives' shoulders. It was placed on the ground for me to step in and
lie down, but I begged the privilege of walking, which was refused, as
it would injure my health, for the rain was pouring. I did not like
it, although I did not get wet. The idea of a bier was constantly
presenting itself, together with the fear that it was too great a
burden for the poor natives. A terrible storm came up on our way back
to the ship, and we nearly lost our lives in the angry waves.

_5th, First day._ Had a meeting in the evening on board, as it was
very rainy. In retirement this day we could say with the Psalmist,
"How precious are thy thoughts unto me!"

_7th._ Went ashore and had a meeting at Edina, on the north side of
the St. John's River. It proved a memorable solemnity.

_8th._ Went on shore and had a meeting on the south side of the St.
John's, at Bassa. The blessed Head of the Church was pleased to feed
the hungering multitudes through His poor instruments. A number
collected to witness our departure, and we took an affectionate leave
of them, mingled with sadness, on our final departure from Bassa Cove.

Set sail about five o'clock with a brisk wind, which would take us to
Monrovia by sunrise, but it soon became calm, and we came to anchor.
The Lord knows what is best.

_9th._ We are quite anxious as we approach Monrovia, for here we must
decide whether to remain in Africa and wait a passage to England
(should none offer before the packet leaves), or return to Boston and
thence embark to Liverpool. I trust we are resigned to either as the
Lord wills.

_10th._ Anchored off Cape Mesurado. Dear Eli went on shore and found
letters from home. We read them together with much joy, as they
contained intelligence that all was well with the dear children and
those at home. Boundless is our debt of gratitude. One of the
immigrants who was in good health at the time of our last meeting on
board is dead. We learned that she died in peace, but was cruelly
treated by her husband.

_11th._ Went on shore accompanied by the President's wife. I took a
bundle of tracts and visited all the sick and infirm, distributing
tracts and imparting such messages of gospel love as were given me.

_First day, 12th._ Went on shore quite comfortably, although it was
wet, and attended a meeting at the Baptist house. Our meetings here
have been signally blessed. Truly the Lord's name is great in Zion.

_13th._ Rainy, but got on shore, and made calls and distributed
tracts. No way opens yet for Sierra Leone. We are wholly dependent on
Him who makes a way.

_14th._ Called at U. McGill's, J. B. McGill's, Beverley Willson's. I
then distributed tracts, and I think that I never saw so much
gratitude manifested in any part of the world I ever visited. As I
passed their little cots they followed me in numbers; even children
joined, holding out their hands begging for a tract. At length all
were gone, but a few more on board.

_15th._ Dear Eli went up the river St Paul, and visited New Georgia,
Upper and Lower Caldwell, Virginia, and Kentucky. I spent the day
making calls and giving tracts.

_17th._ It is a time of seeking the Lord among the people. The youth
are flocking to the Saviour. May a glorious accession be made to the
militant Church from Africa!

_19th._ Went on shore, and had a meeting at the Methodist house, and
it was a solemn occasion, as it was our final meeting.

_20th._ Went on shore for the last time, as the ship would sail at
three o'clock. Made several calls, one on a sick immigrant from
Antigua. Has been sick seven months, reduced to a skeleton; said he
had a wife and two children in his native land. As he spoke of them
his eyes filled with tears, and "God's will be done!" fell from his
trembling lips.

I went with some ladies to the highest point of this commanding
promontory. Had a fine view of the town and mountains toward the
interior. We met many a smiling face and heard many a "Thank you" as
we stopped at the little cots to distribute tracts. The Liberians are
very anxious to get these little messengers, and read them with
interest. We hope they may be a blessing to them. I handed one to an
aged woman, who clasped it to her bosom and exclaimed, "The Lord bless
you! I will keep it to read while I live, and when I die I will have
it put into my coffin."

We have left Monrovia, and as the land recedes from view the pangs of
separation from many, if not all, are keenly realized, not only by us,
but by the group on shore. But as the clouds dispersed around the
setting sun his last sweet rays rested upon the rich foliage, and
then, veiling his face in a mantle of crimson clouds, withdrew. We
leave Africa with sheaves of peace.

_21st._ Made little progress to-day. Though our returning in the ship
is very unexpected, yet all is peace, and it seems to us to be in the
will of Him who brought us in safety across the mighty deep. No way
has opened for us to go to Sierra Leone or England. We intend to
return to America (if no new opening appears) and embark at Boston for
Liverpool. In this way we may see our little ones; which seems almost
too great a favor. We have thoughts of stopping at St. Thomas, and
thence prosecuting our contemplated visit among the islands, if we can
make an arrangement with the captain that will answer and it seems
right.

_22d._ Delightful weather. This morning in silent waiting before the
Lord He gave us to feel His holy presence near, and an assurance that
He would still lead us and instruct us.

_23d._ The captain concludes to leave us at St. Thomas if we desire
it. We had looked toward home, but the prospect seems somewhat like
closing up. The will of the Lord be done!

Some swallows appeared this morning and flew into the cabin. They
lingered about all day. They may be emigrants from cold New England's
clime. They brought with them sweet thoughts of scenes and lands far
over the blue depths of ocean.

_28th._ Clear weather. Think it may be best to abandon the thought of
returning home, and stop at St. Thomas, one of the West Indies, and
commence our next labors. This seems a favorable opening, for a
Northern tour will be too great a change of climate. My health seems
greatly improved by a warm climate.

_30th, First day._ We sat down for meeting together, it being
meeting-day at home. We felt as the disciples journeying toward
Emmaus; we felt our hearts warmed and tendered together.

_31st._ St. Thomas is in our minds' view, but whether we shall get
there or not lies in the bosom of futurity. It will probably take two
weeks longer to reach there if the ship touches it. Our daily prayer
is to be directed aright.

_11th mo. 1st._ Dear Eli is much better, and my health is quite good.
The cook is quite sick; I fear he will not recover. He is in great
distress both of mind and body. How wise to prepare for such an awful
time in health!

_2d._ Last evening we read a chapter by the bedside of the distressed
sailor. My heart was poured out in prayer.

_3d._ We are sailing ten knots an hour toward our native land. The
captain does not think, on further reflection, that he can
consistently stop at St. Thomas. We had given up to go if the way had
been clear, and therefore think the hand of the Lord is in it. He will
accept the will for the deed. The cook seems recovering, and truly
penitent. He told me that a testimony delivered at our last meeting on
board was for him. He has been previously a very profane and wicked
man. This is a fresh instance of the mercy and longsuffering of the
Lord.

_6th._ We are approaching our native land with the sheaves of peace,
but feeling still bound to the work, not knowing the things that may
await us there. May my whole life be dedicated to His service who has
so remarkably blessed my going out and coming in!

_20th._ The captain concludes to set his course for Baltimore, hoping
to reach Cape Henry before our stores fail.

_9th._ About ten o'clock a pilot-boat came alongside and left a pilot.
Providence permitting, we may soon set our feet on the wharf at
Baltimore. Soon we must bid adieu to our home upon the ocean. We are
encouraged with the regular and sober deportment of all on board, and,
though our passage has been a protracted one, we do not regret it,
while we have beheld with thankfulness the operation of the Lord's
hand upon the crew of our brave ship, to which, with its inmates, we
shall now bid adieu with emotions of gladness and regret. Oh may all
that have sailed together here anchor at last in the kingdom of God!
Farewell!

       *       *       *       *       *

Soon after their return Eli Jones wrote an article for the _Friends'
Review_ setting forth the conditions of this African colony, and
recommending that some more work be done to help these enterprising
freedmen and the less enlightened native tribes within the republic of
Liberia. The article was reprinted, and was read by many. Still later,
while at work in North Carolina, he received a call from the president
of the African Colonization Society to attend one of their meetings in
Washington, which he accordingly did. As he entered the hall where the
exercises were being held a gentleman was delivering a discourse in
which he endeavored to show the impossibility of an equality between
negroes and white men, and consequently the hazardousness of the
experiment of allowing them to rule themselves. The chairman then
announced that the next speaker was to have been Eli Jones, but that
he had not yet seen him.

To his surprise, a man rose in the back of the hall, threw off his
overcoat, and came to the platform. He gave his name as the one called
for, and began to give his knowledge and opinion of Liberian
colonization. He took as his text the remark of the former speaker,
saying that he as a landowner and tiller of the soil went from Maine
to Liberia, where he stood on an equality with the landowners there;
but as he came in the presence of President Roberts there was not an
equality, since he, the white man, stood below the vigorous, wise,
strong-minded colored President of the republic. From that he spoke
for an hour feelingly and emphatically on the excellence of the work
going on in Africa, at the same time impressing the need of further
aid.




CHAPTER VII.

_WORK IN ENGLAND AND IRELAND._

    "Their single aim the purpose to fulfil
      Of truth from day to day;
    Simply obedient to its guiding will,
      They held their pilgrim way.
    Yet dream not hence the beautiful and old
      Were wasted on their sight
    Who in the school of Christ had learned to hold
      All outward things aright."

    WHITTIER.


Eli and Sybil Jones reached Baltimore in the middle of winter, and
experienced the joy of being once more among Friends and in their own
loved country. Having been kept and continually supported to
accomplish their work, they now were filled with thanksgiving to Him
whose pillar of cloud and fire had gone before them by day and by
night, and they were prepared in spirit for the still longer journey
which was before them. They visited friends and relatives on their way
to Maine, and were everywhere joyfully received. Their children had
all passed the time of their absence pleasantly, and had gained in
mental and physical growth.

It was an interesting sight when their townsmen met to welcome them
home. One can see them in the monthly meeting, which was held at this
time. Many who came but seldom, rode over the hills that day to sit
down on the unpainted seats and listen if they did not worship, and an
unusually large number were present when the hushed stillness told
that meeting had begun. One father and the mothers of the two
ministers were there, brothers and sisters, uncles and aunts; many who
had always known them, and some who had never seen them,--all bowed
their heads before the Mighty One, and

                      "Low breathings stole
    Of a diviner life from soul to soul,
    Baptizing in one tender thought the whole."

Even the cold-hearted felt a warmth steal in, and the low-spirited
were exalted in their minds. No one who sat under that silence doubted
that the Lord was speaking to "the spirit's finer ear;" and when the
seal was broken and the moved lips opened in vocal thanksgiving many
hearts rose in harmony. A brief, quiet prayer from a full heart, when
the spirit of the whole meeting rises with it, reaches where eye
cannot see, and comes not back void. Words are human, but power is
divine.

We can see Eli Jones rise from his wonted seat and slowly speak his
text: "When the poor and needy seek water and there is none, and their
tongue faileth for thirst, I the Lord will hear them, I the God of
Israel will not forsake them. I will open rivers in high places, and
fountains in the midst of the valleys. I will make the wilderness a
pool of water, and the dry land springs of water." His companion sees
many before her who have grown cold while they have been answering the
call from Ethiopia, and sweetly she asks them to whom they will go if
they forsake Him who alone has the words of eternal life. Together
they sound the alarm and call upon their friends and neighbors to
stand firm and quit them like men while they go out again to reap in
other vineyards. At the close of this day Sybil Jones could say, "He
brought us unto his banqueting-house, and the banner over us was
Love."

Once more they separated from home-friends and took their little
children to West Hill, N. J., the lovely home of Eliza P. Gurney, who
had asked that the two youngest boys, Eli Grelet and Richard Mott,
might be left with her during their parents' absence.... On First day
they attended the meeting at Burlington, and sat in company with
Stephen Grelet and Richard Mott, for whom the boys had been named.
Stephen Grelet, that great apostle, who had given messages from the
King of kings to potentates and princes in all the countries of
Europe, who had shown men's equality by holding his finger to the
Pope's extended finger, and who was now waiting to be ushered into
another and a higher court, addressed them thus: "The Lord has
provided for your children in your absence, and thus given striking
demonstration of His love to you; and now this testimony is applicable
to you, my dear friends: 'I will be with thee whithersoever thou
goest, and will guide thee with mine eye, and afterward receive thee
into glory;' so go, dear friends, cheerfully, for the Lord will be
your all-sufficient Helper."

After visiting their other children, at Haverford College and at
Providence, they finally sailed from Boston the 31st of 3d mo. on the
steamer "Niagara" for Liverpool. A goodly company of Friends from
Lynn and elsewhere were on the wharf to wave them adieu.

It was an uneventful passage, except that an iceberg was discovered
exactly in their course just in time to turn the ship from the danger.
Sybil Jones writes of it: "I got on deck while it was in full view,
and gazed with wonder and delight upon this magnificent frosty
traveller from the frigid North to milder skies. It seemed like an
island all of light consolidated into form, or as a cathedral whose
stately spires pierced the eternal sunshine. The first rays of the
morning sun gave to its pure, spotless whiteness a brilliancy and
beauty that seemed almost of heavenly extraction. It reminded us of
the infinitely more splendid and soul-ravishing charms of nature's God
and heaven's eternal King, of whose mercy it seemed the white-robed
harbinger."

On their return voyage, the ship, sailing at a rapid rate in a dense
fog, found itself almost upon a gigantic iceberg, a mighty pyramid of
ice. It seemed to all on board that the ship must be crushed. An
infidel who was a fellow-passenger hurried on deck and cried out, "In
an hour we shall all be lost, but let us die like philosophers."--"No,"
said Sybil Jones, rising to her feet; "if we are to meet death, let
us do it as Christians." In God's goodness all were spared.

They were delighted with their first sight of England, to find such
abundant verdure instead of the snow and ice which they left on the
hills of New England, and they were more delighted still to find warm
hearts waiting for them, among whom was Benjamin Seebohm, who had
been a former messenger of good to them. It was nearly time for Dublin
yearly meeting to begin, and they crossed over to Ireland to attend
it. This was an occasion of great interest, and the two American
Friends had weighty service to perform; but Sybil Jones was taken ill
with severe irritation of the spine while the meeting was still in
session. She finally found relief for that time, and was able to
attend some of the meetings. Their friend Mary James Lecky was always
ready to attend to their comfort, and they did not want for pleasant
homes.

Their visit to Balitore is thus described: "We left for Balitore in
the comfortable coach of our dear friend Mary J. Lecky. Our route was
most pleasant and interesting--beautiful groves, rich fields of waving
grain, with herds and flocks scattered over the flowery lawns; stately
dwellings and white cottages, with now and then some ancient castle in
ruins, wearing a vesture of deep green woven by the evergreen ivy,
which flourishes in rich foliage on its time-beaten walls and
dilapidated towers. The golden furze may be seen in abundance on hill
and dale, and is a lovely ornament to the variegated scene. The hedges
that skirt the way are bespangled with yellow and crimson primroses,
bluebells, violets, and many other little wild flowers, forming a
radiant wreath entwined with the graceful ivy. We admired the scene,
and talked much of Erin, the green isle of the ocean. At one o'clock
we arrived at Balitore, or, as it is sometimes called, the 'Classic
Vale.' Dear Elizabeth Barrington--the 'Princess Elizabeth,' as she is
sometimes called--gave us a cordial welcome. The charms of this little
village, loveliest of the plain, are sweetly enhanced by the memory
of departed worth, talent, genius, virtue and piety which once
flourished here."[5]

  [5] It was at Balitore that Edmund Burke received his early education,
  at the Friends' school conducted by Richard Shackleton, to whom he
  often wrote and attributed much of his careful training.

Day after day they attended meetings and visited families, though
Sybil Jones was in such a state of health that it was merely her will
which kept her from bed; she continually spoke of the "frailty of the
tabernacle," but the strength of the spirit forced the body to obey
and do its part of the work; and as the time drew near for the London
yearly meeting they turned thither. Everywhere they directed their
eyes a new beauty of landscape, a majesty of mountain, or a charm of
antiquity met them; but Sybil Jones was forced to close her eyes on
all this outward loveliness, and as as she rode along, reclining on
her seat, she comforted herself "in the presence of Him who verily
knows what is best for us; health and life, with every other blessing,
are in his hand."

The meeting began on the 17th of Fifth month, and now for the first
time in their lives they were sitting in the parent yearly meeting of
the Society of Friends. For more than two hundred years the Friends of
Great Britain have annually assembled in London, and the power of
these meetings is wonderful. Some of England's greatest minds have sat
in silent waiting there, and have raised their voices in regard to the
proper ordering of the household of faith, and some of her lowliest
sons and daughters have not been hindered from sitting in the same
seat with these great lights, and their words have been listened to
with equal deference. English conservatism has kept this meeting much
as it was in earlier days, while broad ideas and liberal notions have
been disseminated, so that no stiff cloak of formalism has settled
over the body. The Spirit which giveth life is sought for, but the
iron yoke of the letter does not rest upon them. The voices of "just
men made perfect" have, in all the generations since George Fox,
pleaded from full hearts that the Lord might have here a "peculiar
people," separated from the world and satisfied with the one honor of
being "fellow-citizens with the saints."

Eli and Sybil Jones had many comforting sessions in this meeting, and
they not only did the work which was in their hearts for the
strengthening of those assembled, but they were themselves made more
strong and more useful members of the Church for this work in the
harmonious company of united English Friends.

The effect of their utterances and the impressiveness of the gathering
were beautifully and eloquently described by Elihu Burritt, who was
present, and who was afterward associated with Eli Jones in the Peace
cause. This passage is from his diary, dated the 21st of fifth month:


                           THE QUAKER MEETING.

                                      "LONDON, May 21, 1852.

     "This has been a day of deep interest. In the morning I went to
     the meeting of public worship in the Devonshire House, which was
     filled to the utmost capacity by Friends from every part of the
     kingdom. As a spectacle no human congregation can surpass it in
     impressive physiognomy. The immaculate purity of the women's
     dresses as they sat a mountain multitude of shining ones, arising
     in long quiet ranks from the floor to the gallery on one side of
     the house, the grave mountain of sedate and thoughtful men on the
     other, presented an aspect more suggestive of the assemblies of
     the New Jerusalem than any earthly congregation I had ever seen.
     In a brief time the last-comers had found seats or
     standing-places, and then a deep devotional silence settled down
     upon the great assembly like an overshadowing presence from
     heaven. The still, upbreathing prayer of a thousand hearts seemed
     to ascend like incense, and the communion of the Holy Spirit to
     descend like a dove, whispering its benediction and touching to
     sweeter listening serenity those faces so calm with the breath of
     its wing; and out of the deep silence of this unspoken devotion
     arose one, with trembling meekness, to unburden the heart of a
     few brief message-words to which it feared to withhold utterance,
     lest it should sin against the inspiration that made it burn with
     them. From another part of the house arose the quavering voice of
     prayer, short, but full of the earnest emotion of supplication
     and humble utterance of faith and thanksgiving. Then moments of
     deeper silence followed, as if all the faculties of the mind and
     all the senses of the physical being had descended into the
     soul's inner temple to listen to and wait for the voice of the
     Spirit of God. How impressive was the heart-worship of those
     silent moments! There was something solemn beyond description in
     the spectacle of a thousand persons of all ages so immovable that
     they seemed scarcely to breathe. The 'Ministers' Gallery' was
     occupied by a long rank of the teachers, the fathers, and the
     mothers of the Society from different parts of the country, who
     seemed to preside over this communion like shepherds sitting down
     before their quiet flocks by the still waters of salvation. In
     the centre sat a man and a woman a little past the meridian of
     life, and apparently strangers in the great congregation. The
     former had an American look, which was perceptible even to the
     opposite extremity of the building, and when he slowly arose out
     of the deep silence his first words confirmed that impression.
     They were words fitly spoken and solemn, but uttered with such a
     nasal intonation as I never heard before, even in New England. At
     first and for a few minutes I felt it doubtful whether the
     unpleasant influence of this aggravated peculiarity would not
     prevent his words of exhortation from having salutary effect upon
     the minds of the listening assembly. But as his words seemed to
     flow and warm with increasing unction, little by little they
     cleared up from that nasal cadence and rounded into more oral
     enunciation. Little by little they strengthened with the power of
     truth, and the truth made them free and flowing. His whole
     person, so impassive and unsympathetic at first, entered into the
     enunciation of these truths with constantly increasing animation,
     and his address grew more and more impressive to the last. He
     spoke nearly an hour, and when he sat down and buried his fingers
     under his broad-brimmed hat, and the congregation settled down
     into the profound quiet of serene meditation, I doubted whether
     it would be broken again by the voice of another exhortation.
     But in the course of a few minutes the form of the woman who sat
     by his side--and it was his wife--might be perceived in a state
     of half-suppressed emotion, as if demurring to the inward monitor
     of the Spirit that bade her arise and speak to such an assembly.
     It might well have seemed formidable to the nature of a meek and
     delicate woman. She seemed to struggle involuntarily with the
     conviction of duty, and to incline her person slightly toward her
     husband, as if the tried attributes of her heart leaned for
     strength on the sympathy of his, as well as on the wisdom she
     waited from above. Then she arose calm, meek, and graceful. Her
     first words dropped with the sweetest enunciation upon the still
     congregation, and were heard in every part of the house, though
     they were uttered in a tone seemingly but little above a whisper.
     Each succeeding sentence warbled into new beauty and fulness of
     silvery cadence. The burden of her spirit was the life of
     religion in the heart as contrasted with its mere language on the
     tongue, or what it was to be really and truly a disciple of Jesus
     Christ. Having meekly stated the subject which had occupied her
     meditations and which she had felt constrained to revive in the
     hearing of the congregation before her, she said: 'And now, in my
     simple way and in the brief words which may be given me, let me
     enter with you into the examination of this question.' At the
     first word of this sentence she loosed the fastenings of her
     bonnet, and at the last handed it down to her husband with a
     grace indescribable. There was something very impressive in the
     act as well as in the manner in which it was performed, as if she
     uncovered her head involuntarily in reverence to that vision of
     divine truth unsealed to her waiting eyes. And in her eyes it
     seemed to beam with a heavenly light serene, and in her heart to
     burn with holy inspiration and meekness, and to touch her lips
     and every gentle movement of her person with an expression
     eloquent, solemn, beautiful as her words fell upon the rapt
     assembly from the heaven of tremulous flute-like music with which
     her voice filled the building. Like a stream welling from Mount
     Hermon and winding its way to the sea, so flowed the melodious
     current of her message, now meandering among the unopened flowers
     of rhymeless poetry, now through green pastures of salvation,
     where the Good Shepherd was bearing in his bosom the tender lambs
     of his flock; next it took the force of lofty diction, and fell,
     as it were, in cascades of silvery eloquence, but solemn, slow,
     and searching, adown the rocks and ravines of Sinai; then out
     like a sweet-rolling river of music into the wilderness, where
     the Prodigal Son, with the husks of his poverty clutched in his
     lean hands, sat in tearful meditation upon his father's home and
     his father's love. More than a thousand persons seemed to hold
     their breath as they listened to that meek, delicate woman, whose
     lips appeared to be touched to an utterance almost divine. I
     never saw an assembly so moved, but so subdued into motionless
     meditation. And the serene and solemn silence deepened to
     stillness more profound when she ceased speaking. In the midst of
     these still moments she knelt in prayer. As the first word of her
     supplication arose the men, who had worn their hats while she
     spoke to them, reverently uncovered their heads as she kneeled to
     speak to God. Long and fervent was her supplication. Her clear
     sweet voice trembled with the burden of the petition with which
     her soul seemed to ascend into the Holy of holies, and to plead
     there with Jacob's Father for a blessing upon all encircled
     within that immediate presence. She arose from her knees, and the
     great congregation sat down, as it were under the shadow of that
     prayer to silence more deep and devotional. This lasted a few
     minutes, when two elders of the Society, seated in the centre of
     the 'Ministers' Gallery,' shook hands with each other, and were
     followed by other couples in each direction as a kind of mutual
     benediction as well as a signal that meeting was terminated.--At
     this simple sign the whole congregation arose and quietly left
     the house. Such was the experience of a couple of hours in a
     Quaker meeting."

The last day of the yearly meeting Sybil Jones spoke out her feelings
in regard to total abstinence. She was probably the first person who
publicly stated to an English audience the necessity of taking such
high ground to overcome the evils of intemperance, and, though much
sympathy was expressed, there was a deep feeling on the part of some
against her expressed views. She writes: "This day has concluded the
yearly meeting; my spirit was bound down under a weight of exercise,
but divine help came and enabled me to testify the gospel of the grace
of God in a way most humiliating to the creature; but some, it may be
hoped, were led to examine how far their example of righteousness and
temperance had reached to give a check to the crying sin of this
nation, that not only their husbands and brothers be influenced by
their example, but also their neighbors, and whether there was not
something for them to do in this matter, even total abstinence if it
may be required. When this was done my peace abounded, and I hope no
harm was done. Many dear Friends seemed to feel much sympathy, and a
precious solemnity came over us."

For weeks after leaving London these "two recruiting-officers labored
hard to enlist soldiers for their Captain" through the northern
counties of Ireland. Not only Friends and other Protestants came to
hear them, but often there were priests present at the meetings, and
many Irish Catholics heard them preach the gospel. Sometimes Sybil
Jones seemed to be "standing on the verge of eternity," but as the
body grew frail it seemed the soul waxed strong and her messages
became more impressive. All she saw as they rode from one village to
another attracted her attention, and she rejoiced that the Creator had
made the earth so fair, while she was brought into great sadness at
the poverty and oppression of the unfortunate, and the lack of vital
religion which was often found. There was great need of wisdom in
telling the whole truth to her mixed audiences, to have it come to
them as the one thing they needed to make their unhappy lives happy,
and her soul went out in her utterances to their souls and stirred
them to believe. There was hardly a town which they visited where
error had not been taught and superstitions ruled the hearts of the
people, and many who had suffered deep wrongs felt that there was no
justice in the earth. To such it was announced, "Light is sown for the
righteous, and gladness for the upright in heart;" but they felt that
"nothing short of the omnipotent Arm could deliver these souls from
popish thraldom and make them free through the power of Jesus Christ."

Mary James Lecky continued to accompany them, and she was an almost
indispensable companion, providing for their comfort and safety and
opening ways for their service which to them alone would have been
closed; and as Sybil Jones was under a daily weight of infirmity, she
was a strong arm to lean upon, and encouraged her as a sister when her
heart grew weak from the abundance of trial.[6]

  [6] Mary James Lecky filled her carriage with loaves of bread from the
  baker's, and as they drove along roads where poverty was everywhere
  terribly present, she distributed her stores for the bodily needs of
  the poor suffering peasants, while Sybil Jones earnestly told them of
  the Bread of life. In the original meaning of the word, "lady" is the
  _bread-giver_. Did ever two more worthy the name go out to fulfil the
  duties belonging to that title?

A few passages from their journal will tell much of their earnest
efforts and ceaseless longings to help this people, and also the
difficulties with which they were beset. At Galway, once a famous
seaport town on the west coast of Ireland, they write:

"_9th mo. 15th._ Called at an early hour upon the vicar, an Episcopal
clergyman, D'Arcy, who attended our meeting and kindly invited us to
come to his residence and he would take us to the school and make way
for any religious service to which we felt called. He received us
heartily and entered into the plans we wished to execute. He
accompanied us, with his amiable wife, to the asylum for aged females
and to the school. We had service for Him who sent us, much to our
comfort, and, we may trust, to their edification. The dear children
listened with delight and interest to all that was offered, and many
appeared tender. They are improving finely and getting a good
knowledge of the Scriptures, which may be of lasting benefit to them;
but oh the hunger and rags were apparent enough to pain the hardest
heart. Our company distributed some relief among them as seemed most
prudent; the evil might be wholly remedied by giving them work and a
fair compensation. The Irish are not naturally idle; there is abundant
proof to the contrary.

"_16th, Fifth day._ This morning visited the poor-house and school
connected with it; all neat and orderly, good improvement; about
thirteen hundred inmates. We had the children collected for religious
service, and it was a good time. They were mostly Roman Catholics.
They were serious and seemed contrited."

"_17th._ Two friends with my Eli called on the Roman priest and
informed him of our intention to hold a meeting for the inhabitants;
he was civil, but said none of his people would attend."

At another time, while they were in the city of Galway, Eli Jones was
told that he would be stoned by the Catholics if he attempted to
preach. He at once called on the priest, told him that he was an
American, and obtained a promise from him that his people should be
allowed to come to the meeting that evening. Before a large audience
of the most bigoted Roman Catholics he arose to preach the gospel of
redeeming love. It was the part of wisdom to gain his hearers, for
their souls could not be reached until the barrier of their prejudice
was broken down. He began: "A virgin shall conceive and bring forth a
son, and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty
God, The Everlasting Father, and the Prince of Peace;" "Hail, thou
that art highly favored, the Lord is with thee, blessed art thou among
women;" "They found Joseph and Mary and the babe." After hearing these
passages they were all ready to listen to him, and then, as he says,
"I soon left the _mother_ and talked to them of the _child_."

"_The 20th, at Conamarra._ People mostly in rags worn to strings,
winter near, hunger everywhere; but a better time is coming, we hope.
They seem emerging from the shades of superstition and moral darkness,
having seen in some degree the light which enlightened the Gentiles
and the glory of Israel. May the bright and morning Star shine in its
resplendent beauty over this neglected land! May the labors of the
faithful ministers of Christ be more abundant and their service for
Him be crowned with cheering success! and may the seed sown, though
often with weeping, trembling, and much fear, bring forth an
hundred-fold!

"_21st._ We arrived at Clifden in time for a meeting held in a
courthouse. Many sober people came who seemed glad to hear of the way
of life, but others, set on by the priests, disturbed the meeting, so
that it was not a very comfortable time; but I secretly rejoiced in
being counted worthy to suffer for His name's sake who sent us forth."

On the 28th Sybil Jones was taken very ill with influenza. They were
fortunately at Kilnock, among very kind friends. Here they were kept
nearly a month. Eli Jones improved all the time, holding meetings
almost continually, while his wife, confined to her room, "was in
great peace" and the triumphal anthem was on her lips:

    "If Thou shouldst call me to resign
    What most I prize--it ne'er was mine--
    I only yield Thee what was Thine;
    Thy will be done."

After six weeks, nearly all of which had been weeks of illness and
hence time taken from the work, she writes: "I like to note now and
then the fleet footsteps of Time. I perceive he will not stay his
rapid course for me, and therefore I most earnestly pray so to number
my days and to apply my heart with diligence unto wisdom that each
golden hour may bear upward the incense of a grateful, devotional
spirit still more and more dedicated to the work and service, of so
vast and infinite importance, that my heavenly Father has assigned to
His poor, unworthy child, and that the holy discipline of the cross of
Christ may nurture and increase every grace of the eternal quickening
Spirit of my dear Redeemer. While the truth is indelibly stamped upon
my spirit that I can do nothing without Him, I believe 'I can do all
things through Christ that strengtheneth me.' May these afflictions of
the shattered citadel, which now confine me to a lonely room and often
a sleepless couch, be sanctified to the promotion of righteousness and
true holiness in myself and others, that in every dispensation
thanksgiving may arise to the blessed name of the Lord!"

Near Lisburn she was again a prisoner from sickness for about four
weeks, and earnestly she prayed for guidance and strength to bear
whatever came for her.

"_The 30th of 1st mo., 1853_. I think I have seen, by the light that
has never yet deceived me, my path across the Channel to
Liverpool--that if I trust in my Saviour alone for bodily and
spiritual strength, it will be accomplished and marvellous deliverance
wrought. This morning I mentioned my prospect to my dear husband of a
speedy release from this place. He seemed doubtful of its
practicability with safety to my health. I replied, 'Nothing is
impossible with God. I believe He will bring us through this Jordan.'
We thought of Third day, as a steamer would sail at 4 P. M., but it
did not seem clear, and I was thrown into doubting and fear. After
seeking divine direction I felt a blessed trust that on Fifth day we
might with safety leave these shores.

"_Third day._ My dear Eli mentioned a prospect of a public meeting at
Carrickfergus, and this was a confirmation that our plan was right."

On Fourth day they held a farewell meeting, and there was much
expression of mutual love, and, the Irish Friends gave thanks for the
long service which had been performed in their land. For almost a year
the gospel had been preached over the island to high and low, to rich
and poor. Eli Jones visited, with perhaps one exception, every meeting
in Ireland, and met personally some members of nearly every Friend's
family on the island. No suffering or other hindrance had kept these
two servants from sowing seed in all kinds of soil, and they came from
the field believing that their sowing would bring forth fruit after
many days. Sybil Jones went to her train on a couch, and was obliged
to make the whole journey to Liverpool in the same way, but she was
soon at work again at Manchester. Here she rested while Eli Jones
visited the surrounding meetings, and the prospect of still more
extended work began to appear to them. Certainly, few laborers have
gone out in a more determined spirit to overcome all obstacles to
carry the gladdest of all news to ears as yet ungladdened by it. They
visited the quarterly meetings at York, Leeds, Lancaster, Darlington,
and Birmingham, and Sybil Jones rested while Eli attended Dublin
yearly meeting. She was visited by Harriet Beecher Stowe, and they had
a time of prayer together. There were many interesting incidents
connected with their visits at the different cities and the various
homes. Joseph Sturge came to talk with them of temperance and slavery,
and told them he intended to contribute to the support of New Garden
Boarding-school, where some of the children of the South might have
the privilege of gaining better knowledge.




CHAPTER VIII.

_NORWAY, GERMANY, AND SWITZERLAND._

                     "A voice spake in their ear,
    And lo! all other voices far and near
    Died at that whisper full of meanings clear."

    WHITTIER.


Eli and Sybil Jones attended the London yearly meeting of 1853, and
were liberated to go to the Continent for gospel work in Norway,
Germany, and France. Mary James Lecky was their companion, and was in
all respects a most suitable person for this service. Unknown
difficulties were before them; new races of people were to be touched
through an unknown language; hard journeys were to be made by a
feeble, almost invalid woman; still, they turned toward the shores of
Norway, believing that He whose finger pointed the way would shield
them with His hand. Once more they unquestioningly gave immediate
obedience to the word of their great Captain, and they knew His ways
well enough to be assured that the result would be the desired one.

Joseph Crosfield offered to go as a caretaker for the little party,
and he was of great help to them. When they arrived at Liverpool from
Ireland, an elderly doctor was called to see Sybil Jones. After
examining her trouble carefully, he said, "You know David had it in
his heart to build the Lord an house. In his case the will was taken
for the work; so it must be in yours. You must stop your work and go
south, or go to your home at once." If this doctor had followed his
patient, he would have found her in the northern latitude of Norway.
The great Physician's order conflicted with that of the doctor, and
there could be no doubt which was to be followed.

On the 11th of 6th month they embarked on the steamer "Courier" for
Christiansand, being joined by James Backhouse and Lindley M. Hoag,
making a company of six. The passage was very rough, and all on board
were brought low with sea-sickness, but the German Ocean was soon
crossed, and they came into port at Christiansand, finding it light
enough at midnight to read and write and to see the beautiful
Norwegian scenery around them.

The western coast of Norway is everywhere indented by arms of the sea
called fiords; the coasts are rough and rugged, overhung with crags of
rock beaten and worn by the age-long dash of these northern waters.
Into these fiords has rushed the ship of many a bold seaman, and the
shores are tilled by a hardy race, carrying in their veins the
civilized blood of the old Norse warrior. These descendants of
Northern mythology rejoice when messengers come to tell the simple way
of life and joy through the Saviour, and their boats are ready to bear
strangers from one promontory across the fiord to another. They come
in crowds to hear of the better way, and yet in many places they have
escaped the thraldom of Thor and Odin only to bow their necks to the
yoke which the priests make them bear.

"There are many flourishing towns and villages pleasantly situated on
the fiords, easily accessible by boat. The scenery is grand and
picturesque--lofty mountains, verdant lawns, and flowery vales, with
now and then a beautiful cascade or mountain-torrent rushing and
mingling its snow-white foam with the crystal waters below. Formerly
the Friends' meeting was held at Stavanger Fiord, but there were
numerous Friends scattered along the coast.

"_6th mo. 25, 1853._ This day the Norway yearly meeting commenced at
ten o'clock. A deep solemnity came over us. A few words with life and
feeling from dear Mary J. Lecky opened the way for L. M. Hoag, who
testified the gospel of the grace of God to a deeply interested
assembly. In the afternoon we assembled for business, which was
conducted under a good influence and very orderly. The subject of
addressing King Oscar on account of the suffering of some of the
members by the exaction of tithes was discussed and referred to a
committee. Two persons were received into membership, and two more
applied. The certificates of ministers present were read, after which
several lively testimonies were borne and counsel offered, and all
ended well."

When the yearly meeting was finished the Friends held meetings with
the prisoners and visited the different schools, holding meetings also
at their hotels and once or twice in a barn. They went as far north as
Bergen, where they had remarkable assemblies of people notwithstanding
the fact that the priests spread the report that these Quakers were
dangerous people and did not believe in God. They were refused
permission to visit the prisoners; however, they sent Bibles and
tracts to them, not being allowed to distribute them in person. The
inhabitants of Bergen were highly displeased at the conduct of the
ecclesiastics, and it seemed that many more came to hear the Friends
for themselves on account of the unchristian spirit which was
manifested toward them, and numbers came to their hotel to be
instructed. It was very touching to their tender spirits to see an
eagerness for better things so crushed out by so-called teachers. "The
flock look up and are not fed." Having done what they could, they
returned to Stavanger, and spent much time visiting families and
holding public meetings. When they took the boat to leave this place
the people wished they would send them more "good bodies" to teach
them.

They travelled all the way from Stavanger to Christiansand, a distance
of ninety-four miles, in an open boat, walking across the isthmuses
from one fiord to another and carrying the boat over with them. From
Christiansand they went by boat to Christiania, where they had a
meeting with the seamen, besides other public meetings, all well
attended. Then they prepared to leave Norway for Kiel, Denmark, on
their way to Germany, having travelled twelve hundred miles in Norway,
mostly by boat, and having held fifty meetings, besides visiting many
families; in all of which work they were wonderfully helped with
strength, and the Spirit of the Lord was with them.

The 16th of 7th month they left Norway, bound for Denmark. They
sailed down by Jutland and entered the Cattegat. Along the shores they
saw "highly-cultivated fields of grain, white for harvest, shepherds
keeping their flocks beside the meandering streams, reposing beneath
the shade, while the sheep were feeding in green pastures, which were
interspersed with neat red-roofed cottages."

They went directly to Minden, where most of the few German Friends
live, who, unfortunately, are becoming fewer and fewer. After visiting
these families and attending their mid-week meeting, they rode to
Oberkirchen in Hesse. "Soon after reaching our hotel," they write, "we
were visited by the police, who inquired our business, telling us we
could not be allowed to hold any public meetings in the place--that it
would be contrary to the law to allow any dissenter from the Lutheran
Church to hold a meeting. We informed them we had no such purpose, but
came to visit those who had left the public worship and professed with
us. They then withdrew, appearing quite ashamed of their business; but
after coffee, when we were engaged in prayer, they again appeared,
telling us that if we intended to have a public meeting they must
request us to leave the place. We told them again our intention, and
they took our names and withdrew. We asked our landlord why peaceable
American citizens were molested by the police and their business
inquired into, assuring him that it was the first time in all our
travels in various countries that we had been remanded before the
authorities--that many of their countrymen came unmolested to our
country and were treated civilly. He replied that the conduct of the
police had highly displeased him, and on inquiring into the cause of
it he found that the priests had sent them."

From Minden, Eli and Sybil Jones went on to Pyrmont, where they
attended the "two-months" meeting. They held a public meeting in the
Friends' house, and some people of note came to hear them. One, a
Russian noble of high birth; Dr. Menke, one of the privy council of
the prince of Waldeck, who was said to be one of the most learned men
in Prussia; also Frederick Fickenscher, the son of the dean of
Nuremberg; besides many Jews, all of whom heard "Jesus Christ, and Him
crucified," preached.

Eli Jones had some opportunities for conversation with Fickenscher,
and he impressed on him the importance of our opinions in regard to
war, oaths, and other subjects, and he was urged to accept the gospel
in all its fulness. Dr. Menke came to express to them his satisfaction
with the meeting, saying that he _had_ thought that the views of
Friends were rather _fabulous_, but he was now satisfied that they
were evangelical, and he hoped what he had heard would be useful to
him. They revisited Minden, and had much service among Friends and
others, both publicly and in private. They held a large meeting in the
Minden theatre, of which Eli Jones writes: "A full attendance, several
clergymen present. Some Friends seemed to doubt the propriety of
holding a meeting in a building usually applied to theatrical
purposes; but, to my mind, there was a fitness in the place, that we
might have an opportunity to speak to a class which we could hardly
reach anywhere else."

From Minden they journeyed by short stages south, stopping at
Düsseldorf, where they visited the schools and charity institution; at
Cologne, Bonn, Strasbourg, Basle. In Basle they held a meeting with
sixty young men, students at the Basle mission-house, who were looking
forward to becoming missionaries in the different parts of the world.
A fellow-feeling led them to point these young men to the words of the
Lord: "Without me ye can do nothing." They then took a carriage, going
as far as the Lake of Geneva. It was so arranged that Sybil Jones
could recline, being then far from well.

Sybil Jones writes:

"_10th mo. 8th._ This morning set off for Geneva by steamboat from
Vevay. It being near the head of the lake, our starting-point was
delightful, and our trip on the fair blue water interesting amid the
grand mountains which encircle the lake. They rise like vast
battlements above the clouds in some places. Mont Blanc, the monarch
of mountains, was pointed out. We arrived at the ancient, interesting
city of Geneva about four o'clock. From our room at the Hôtel du Rhône
we have a fine view of the Rhone, which leaves the lake a few yards
above and dashes by our windows, washing the basement story with its
blue waters, hastening on to mingle with the great Mediterranean.

"_9th._ The work never seemed more weighty and watchfulness and prayer
more needful. Our company attended a meeting held by Merle d'Aubigné,
the author of the _History of the Reformation_. He made a report of
the proceedings of the Evangelical Alliance held at Berlin, giving
interesting information of the state of feeling existing between the
different religious denominations on the Continent, who find
themselves more in unison than formerly.

"_11th._ Held a large meeting in the Casino. The Lord was with us.
Dear Christine Alsop interprets well; indeed, we lack nothing.

"_12th._ To-day several serious persons have called, with whom we have
had very interesting conversations about the things which appertain to
eternal life. A very agreeable person came to offer his thanks for the
privilege of the meeting, adding, 'I think it will do good, for I have
been examining the Epistle of Paul, and I am certain he did not mean
to forbid a woman's preaching the glad tidings of a risen Saviour, but
rather counselled the women not to be asking improper questions in
their church-meetings nor to exercise authority or teach in the matter
of church discipline; for it is plain that holy women of old _did_
prophesy (that is, preach), and that Paul did not attempt to hinder
them. He also informed us that a philosophical deist was present last
evening whom he had never seen at a religious meeting before, and that
he fully expected that he would turn it all into ridicule, but, to his
astonishment, he looked serious and said, 'I never heard anything like
this; I scarcely know what to say. It was surely an interesting
discourse.' So we do indeed see that God sometimes chooses 'the weak
things of this world to confound the mighty.' We were informed that
many came who were never seen at meetings on ordinary occasions.
Attended another meeting at the 'Locale,' which was sweet and
refreshing.

"_13th._ Some pious persons have called, among them a very devoted
_pasteur_ with his daughter, whose name is Lalia. They called just as
we were seated for reading the Scriptures, and joined us. During the
silence I felt the spirit of supplication, but it seemed not to belong
to me to pray vocally, and I said that if any person felt it a duty to
pray I hoped that he would be faithful. Unknown to me, the _pasteur_
had just asked C. Alsop in French if there was liberty; she replied in
my words. It was a precious season of prayer and praise. In the
evening we attended an appointment for youth and children. It was
large and solemn, and I reverently trust Christ was preached.

"_14th._ The interest of the people in our meetings still increases,
and many inquirers come to see us, thanking us for the privilege and
asking if there will be more meetings. Jane Bingham and sister, with
Maria Ferris, arrived to-day from Montreux, not having heard of our
meetings until we had left. They are Friends from England; it was
pleasant to meet them. A female superintendent and teacher of young
ladies called and took tea, and seemed very devoted to the cause of
her Redeemer. She follows this business not for gain to herself, but
for gain to others. Her pupils are occupying prominent places, adorned
with wisdom and virtue.

"_15th._ Robert Fox, son, and daughter arrived to-day and took
lodgings with us. Our party numbers twelve. It is pleasant to meet
these dear friends while on a tour for their health. We took a short
ride this morning in a carriage provided by dear M. J. L. to the
country-seat of the Count de Selon, who was an ardent advocate of
peace. In the grounds is an obelisk raised over his remains, with
interesting inscriptions on the subject of peace. We hope his faithful
labors may not be lost. From this beautiful place we had a fine view
of Mont Blanc at sunset; which was magnificent. The snows of ages
changed to crimson; the beautiful azure lake and the fine city of
Geneva lay in loveliness before us.

"_16th._ To-day held two precious meetings at our hotel, to which a
number of serious people came, and expressed themselves especially
pleased with the _silence_, saying that it was needed in these times
of commotion.

"_17th._ Returned by steamer to Lausanne. Took lodgings at a hotel
which is on the spot where Gibbon wrote his celebrated _History of the
Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire_. Had meeting of much interest;
many _pasteurs_ present. A _pasteur_ full of the spirit of peace
informed us that many who had preached against war in Lausanne had
suffered imprisonment. The _pasteur_ wished us to go to Lyons and
preach two such sermons there, saying that they were needed. He did
not understand that we could not preach except we were sent, nor give
forth anything but what we receive at the time.

"Took steamer for Vevay; dined at the hotel, and in the evening held a
meeting in the Casino, after which we rode to Montreux and took
lodgings at a _pension_. Next day held a large meeting at the national
place of worship called the 'Temple.' It was a solemn and instructive
convocation. The forenoon was occupied in a pleasant walk by the lake
at the foot of a mountain, on the side of which stands the village
and old chapel of Montreux; on the left and before us the ancient
castle of Chillon, and the Dent du Midi Mountain covered with snow. On
the right lay the lovely lake, on the other side of which rises a
majestic range of mountains. I became weary of walking, and we called
at a mansion just on the border of the lake. The master is a young
Jew, and of a very tender Christian spirit. We had delightful
conversation with him on heavenly things. He had attended one of our
meetings, and was much struck with our manner of worship. He said that
when we began to speak (Christine and myself) he imagined we had
composed the discourse and committed it to memory, but soon he
perceived the interpreter made a mistake, which rather puzzled him,
and another mistake convinced him that she could not have known what I
was to say previously. Indeed, he thought it was spoken so rapidly it
must come from the heart as it was uttered. He was much edified, and
spoke of those solemn truths with great diffidence and tenderness. His
name is Samuel Samelson. May Israel's gentle Shepherd lead him to the
blessed knowledge of the truth as it is in Jesus and enable him to
confess Him before men! Our young friend provided me with a donkey,
which conveyed me to the residence of the Hustlers, who have resided
here some time. They were formerly English Friends, and received us
with joy. The wife is in very delicate health. We sat together in
sweet heavenly silence, and the language of the Spirit through the
poor instrument was encouraging and humbling. Returned on the donkey
by a shorter route on the side of the mountain. My heart responded to
the music of birds and the smile of Nature. After dining we took a
drive to Chillon, the ancient château where Bonnivard was imprisoned
on account of his political views for several years. The château
stands in the lake. Within it is a range of dungeons below the surface
of the water where prisoners of state and the condemned are confined.
Across one of the vaults is a beam black with age where the executions
took place. It is said two thousand Jews perished here by the hands of
enemies. As we viewed these walls and sombre apartments we were struck
by a sense of man's inhumanity to man and the rapid flight of events
so momentous. How long, O Lord, ere thou takest unto thyself the great
power and reignest?

"_22d._ Called on a bereaved father and mother who were mourning the
death of an only child. We told them of Him who wounds that He may
heal. We also visited a widow and her daughter who knew dear Stephen
Grelet, and remembered his heart-searching ministry among them.
Pasteur Godet was with us a short time. He is a pious, humble
Christian from Neufchatel, who has left the honors of the world (he
had been tutor of the king of Prussia), a man of learning and talent;
which qualities seem sweetly sanctified. At two o'clock P. M. attended
a youths' meeting.

"_23d._ A meeting was held at the Hustlers', which our party attended,
but I was quite ill in bed, but reposing in Him who is my only source
of joy.

"_24th._ Not able to proceed. Dined in the _salle_, and with a
grateful heart was able to return thanks vocally, which seemed to
impress the large company with a serious air. After dining, several
spoke to us kindly, among whom was a baroness from Sweden, who warmly
pressed us to go thither, saying there were many in Sweden who would
receive us warmly, and her own house should be at our disposal for a
home. Invited the family and boarders to our evening reading. Much
tenderness was shown. Many have called on us and expressed their
gratitude for our visit and gospel labors among them. We are sweetly
united to a living seed in this land.

"_25th._ Took our departure from this highly interesting field of
labor after an affectionate parting. We took the omnibus to Villeneuve
and found the steamer ready. After passing the most magnificent
scenery we were soon again at Lausanne. Made arrangements for a
meeting next day.

"_26th._ In the morning held a meeting with the prisoners in the
beautiful prison here. I think it the finest and most comfortable I
have ever seen in any land. Our visit was deeply interesting, and the
poor girls were nearly all in tears, and seemed truly grateful for the
message of love to them. In the evening held a large and favored
meeting at the Casino. Our boat was detained by the dense fog, so we
were obliged to remain another day, which seemed providential, as a
_pasteur_ called and told us of two Moravian schools taught by
pasteurs, one of whom had expressed regret at not hearing of our
meeting or not seeing us. He offered to accompany us to one of the
schools. C. Alsop, our interpreter, had gone to visit an acquaintance,
so Mary Millman, a sweet-tempered girl who spoke English well and who
accompanied us, acted as interpreter. The kind pasteur received us
cordially, and offered to assemble the girls; which was agreeable to
us. I think we have seldom known a more heavenly season. The Lord
poured out a rich blessing upon us. We returned with songs of praise
to our hotel. Have had many calls to-day from Christian brothers and
sisters, expressing their interest in our labors among them. A very
zealous person called who spoke with much tenderness of J. and M.
Yardly, who were instrumental in her conversion. Held a meeting in the
evening which was much blest.

"_28th._ Set off early this morning to visit the Moravian school for
boys, taking the same kind interpreter with us. We received a hearty
welcome, and were informed that the boys had just assembled to
commence Scripture history, and that if we could feel something good
to say to them they would be so glad. Dear E. replied that we came for
that purpose. We were soon seated in a pleasant youthful congregation.
Some countenances testified that they had been with Jesus. The pasteur
read a chapter; solemn silence ensued, then a gentle shower of gospel
love descended and the little plants revived. I cannot doubt but there
are young men in this institution who will fill important places of
usefulness, perhaps ministers of the gospel who will publish the glad
tidings to lands remote. Surely such men, fearing God, are much needed
in this degenerate age. The pasteur offered a sweet-spirited prayer
with tears of gratitude, and we came away. Reached the steamer in good
time. We feel much fellowship with many dear friends in Lausanne.
Arrived at Geneva, and, concluding to go on to Lyons at once, we had
to sacrifice our desires to see the dear friends again."




CHAPTER IX.

_WINTER IN THE SOUTH OF FRANCE._


Before going on to speak of the work of Eli and Sybil Jones among the
Friends and other Protestants in the south of France, a brief sketch
of the rise and growth of the little branch of our Society there may
be in place. The story is full of interest and could be studied to
greater length with profit, but only the briefest reference to it is
admissible here.

Louis XIV. of France decided in 1685 to revoke the "Edict of Nantes,"
passed in 1598 by Henry of Navarre, granting liberty of worship and
repose to all parties in the Church. The revocation was the most cruel
order ever issued by any king. It commanded the demolition of all the
Protestant chapels that remained standing, and forbade any assembly or
worship; all opposing ministers were ordered to leave the kingdom
within fifteen days; the schools were closed; all newborn babes were
to be baptized by the parish priests; evangelical religionists were
forbidden to leave the kingdom, on pain of the galleys for men and
confiscation of person and property for women. It is calculated that
six hundred thousand Protestants left France during the twenty years
following the revocation, while many suffered cruel deaths and many
others spent their lives in the galley-ships. The great struggle made
against this royal edict was along the Cévenne Mountains in the
departments of Lozère, Drôme, Ardèche, Gard, and Hèrault. The
Protestants were called Camisards, perhaps from the word _camisarde_,
a night-attack, but its origin is unsettled. Many of the ministers in
Cévenne had been executed, and enthusiasm was raised to the highest
pitch. Deprived of their pastors, men, women, boys, and girls became
animated by the spirit of prophecy. "Young girls had celestial
visions; the little peasant-lasses poured out their utterances in
French, sometimes in the language and with the sublime eloquence of
the Bible." They assembled under the name of "Children of God," and
marched commanded by two chiefs, Roland and Cavalier. The insurrection
was widespread, and for a long time they overcame or evaded the royal
troops. "The Lord of hosts is our strength!" said one prophet. "We
will intone the battle-psalms, and from the Lozère to the sea Israel
shall arise."

They are thus pictured by a contemporary sent to deal with them: "They
are stark mad on the subject of religion, absolutely intractable on
that point; the first little boy or girl that falls a-trembling and
declares that the Holy Spirit is speaking to it, all the people
believe it, and if God and all his angels were to come and speak to
them they would not believe them any more; they walk to execution
singing the praises of God and exhorting those present, insomuch that
it has been necessary to surround the criminals with drums to prevent
the pernicious effect of their speeches." No men and women were ever
more in earnest or filled with more zeal, but it was often a misguided
zeal and the cause was dishonored by fearful bloodshed. Their camp
was named the "Camp of the Eternal," and they marched to battle
singing the grand version of the 68th Psalm, "Que Dieu se monte
seulement." Among them were many who were sincere, many on whom the
Spirit rested, and there was a grand principle animating them. Much
that seems so excessive may be excused on the consideration that they
were driven to fury by persecution and they bore in their veins the
hot blood of a southern race.

How the little company of peace-loving Friends came from these
_Camisards_, these _Children of God_, has been a question. There is a
manuscript still in existence of a letter supposed to have been
written by some pastors of Geneva which was received and circulated
through the Cévenne. It was an appeal for these struggling brethren to
throw away the sword and cease from bloodshed. "It must be the Lord's
arm," it goes on to say, "and not yours, which shall put an end to
your captivity. Do all you can to obtain the desired object by a holy
life, and not by the works of darkness."

After receiving this letter there was some abatement from their
accustomed acts of cruelty. Among those who claimed the gift of
prophecy was a young woman named Lucretia. Her influence over the
people excited the jealousy of the leaders. When they attempted to
silence her she called out, "Let those who love me follow me." Many
followed her, and her house became a place for meetings. From this
company, it has been said, the Friends in Congènies are descended. The
author has seen a wine-cellar at Fontanés, in the house of Samuel
Brun, where these Friends met for many years. The walls were lined on
the inside with wine-casks to keep the sound from going out, and
Samuel Brun has in his possession a large Bible which for a generation
was built into the wall of the building. Everything which has been
recorded shows the sincerity and quiet determination of these people
to worship God as the New Testament required. Year after year they
took their flocks out on the hills or tilled the more gentle slopes of
the mountains, and they never forgot to meet in their secluded vault
to praise God together for the blessings which He gave them. There was
a tower of Constance at Aiguesmontes of terrible repute, but they were
undaunted and possessed "the brave old wisdom of sincerity."

And this is how they became known to their brother Friends, as is told
in a tract compiled by Friends at Manchester, England: "In the
struggle for independence in 1776 the American colonies received
sympathy and aid from France. There was at that time living at
Falmouth a surgeon named Joseph Fox, a member of the Society of
Friends, who both by education and conviction regarded war in every
shape as forbidden by the gospel. He was part owner of the 'Greyhound'
and the 'Brilliant,' two cutters which traded along the Cornish coast.
The other owners of the cutters decided to fit them out with license
to waylay and capture merchant-vessels of the enemy. Joseph Fox of
course protested. Being one alone, his protest was disregarded and the
vessels were armed. The war broke out so unexpectedly that many French
crafts fell an easy prey to the English cruisers, and the 'Greyhound'
and 'Brilliant' succeeded in capturing two valuable merchantmen,
together with some small coasting-vessels. Joseph Fox believed it to
be his Christian duty to claim his share and hold it in trust to be
restored to the rightful owners. In 1783 peace was restored, and the
next year Joseph Fox sent his son, Dr. Edward Fox, to Paris to
advertise for the owners of the plundered property. A proceeding so
unheard of was naturally looked upon with suspicion, and before the
doctor could obtain leave to insert his advertisement in the _Gazette_
he had to communicate with the Count de Vergennes, one of the French
ministry, who required a formal declaration that his real object was
such as it professed to be.

Meantime, Joseph Fox died. In consequence of the public notice
application was made by numerous parties; all the claims were proved
to be well founded, and a chief part of the money was proportionally
distributed amongst the owners of the two merchantmen and their
cargoes. Those who had been sufferers by the capture made an
acknowledgment through the _Gazette_ of this rare act of restitution,
stating their desire "to give the publicity which it merits to this
trait of generosity and equity, which does honor to the Society of the
Quakers and proves their attachment to the principles of peace and
unity by which they are distinguished."

"Besides the applications for the restored property, Dr. Fox received
at the same time a reply of a very different character. It was a
letter with this address: 'The Quakers of Congènies-Calvisson to the
virtuous Fox.' The writers describe themselves as a little flock of
about a hundred persons, and express their joy to hear of the efforts
used by the advertiser to fulfil the commands of Christ. They
represent themselves as opposed to war on Christian principle, and as
being in consequence an object of hatred and contempt to their
fellow-citizens, both Catholics and Protestants. Especially do they
condemn the wars engaged in by the latter to keep possession of their
religious liberties. This letter led to further correspondence and to
a journey to London by De Marsillac, one of their community. From his
accounts English Friends discovered, to their surprise, that there had
existed in the south of France for sixty or seventy years a Christian
Church which, besides its testimony against war, held spiritual views
regarding worship and the ministry identical with their own."

The origin and discovery of these Friends can hardly fail to interest
those who are not already familiar with them. They were often visited
by Stephen Grelet, who greatly strengthened them and increased their
influence. One who has not been among them can hardly realize how this
little flock, surrounded on all sides with perils and enemies, rejoice
to welcome those who come to bring them strength and cheer. Many leave
the country to escape the army, some marry with other Protestants, and
the outlook is not encouraging for their continuance as a distinct
body; but they have a good history behind them, and should receive
every possible support to hold firm for the help of coming
generations.

When Eli and Sybil Jones went among them it was a time of
discouragement, and they both felt that there was a great service for
them to do. It is not easy to find just what they did, but we know
that for three months they carried on almost ceaseless labor to help
and instruct not only the Friends, but all the Protestants and
Catholics where it was possible. The pastors with one accord opened
their places of worship and approved and welcomed them.

There are many now in Nismes and vicinity who speak with great feeling
of them, and it is evident that all were deeply impressed by their
consecration and earnestness. We need not seek too eagerly for the
results of such work, for it is impossible to measure the good done,
either in counting those converted or those renewed. Two earnest
Christian ministers exert an influence and power in a community which
can be no more easily weighed than the ripples on the sea can be
counted.


                        SOUTH OF FRANCE.

"Set off in the diligence for Lyons, ninety miles distant; fine roads,
good accommodation. The grand scenery delighted us, though tinged with
autumnal frosts. We did not make ourselves known in Lyons. It was
First day, and it was odd and deeply affecting to an American guest to
rise on this morning and behold it a market-day, all bustle and
tumult. The state of morals is very low on the Continent.

"_31st._ Took steamer on the Rhone for Avignon. Met a very interesting
missionary from New York going to Rome. We had an interesting
conversation on the qualifications of missionaries, their trials,
painful separations, etc. Having both known them, we could the more
readily enter into sympathy and fellowship. Lodged in a hotel in the
dull popish town of Avignon.

"_1st of 11th mo._ Set off by rail for Nismes, where we were greeted
by our friends.

"_2d._ Attended Friends' meeting, and received visits from several
members. We were comfortably settled at a hotel near the Friends'
school, which we wish to visit when we have leisure from other
service.

"_3d._ Dear Eli went to Congènies to-day to attend meeting. We have
seen dear John Yardly on his return from his Russian mission. He gave
us pleasant accounts of the work of the Lord in that land and in
Turkey--said he found much openness and many Christian brethren. Some
have suffered loss of nearly all things for the excellence of the
knowledge of Christ.

"_5th._ The two-months' meeting commenced. Great discouragement seems
to prevail, and little contending for the faith once delivered to the
saints. It is indeed to be lamented that the light burns so dimly that
was no doubt kindled by divine love, but for want of watchfulness it
gleams but faintly amid surrounding darkness. If those who profess the
blessed Name in this land were real converted characters! But, as in
ancient time, 'All are not Israel that are of Israel.' Oh may it
please the Lord to revive His work in this day! Toward the close life
seemed to spring up, and much solemnity prevailed. Meeting for
business assembled in the afternoon, and was a refreshing season. We
trust some were made to see where they had been straying. The meeting
concluded with more religious weight and signs of life, and from the
hearts of some arose the song of thanksgiving. Dear John Yardly's
company was indeed precious. I like his evangelical spirit and
devotion to the gospel of Christ.

"_7th._ Attended a meeting at the Methodist house, which was much
favored. Spoke from the first of John. My dear husband and our kind
helpers, R. and C. Alsop, went to St. Giles for a meeting.

"_9th._ We took a walk to an old ruin said to be the temple of Diana.
We also went to La Fontaine, where a large volume of water springs
from the earth. We also saw a beautiful Corinthian temple--'la Maison
Carrée'--said to be eighteen hundred years old.

"_11th._ Held a meeting for some serious soldiers who have lately left
the Roman Catholic worship. We had a good meeting with them; one of
their number spoke very well, at the close of our meeting, on the
immediate teaching of the Holy Spirit. This evening went to Congènies
by diligence, accompanied by R. and C. Alsop, leaving dear Eli to
attend meeting at Nismes."

       *       *       *       *       *

After this Eli and Sybil Jones and their kind friends and helpers
attended many meetings at Nismes and at neighboring towns, going often
to Congènies and Fontanés. Meetings at the latter place seemed
especially opened and favored. Also held meetings, much assisted and
encouraged by the _pasteurs_, at Calvisson, Cordonion, Aujargues,
Aubais, and Vistric, many of which, they had evidence, were singularly
blessed by the Master of assemblies. They had many pleasant meetings
with the young people, and were helped to utter words of cheer and
encouragement to those whose life-work was just beginning. Very frail
in body, and at times almost sinking under the felt duty, yet they
sought to improve every moment of time, not wishing to make any plans
without a direct showing from their heavenly Leader. All places of
Protestant worship were open to them, and they often used the large
national places of worship called "temples." In Fontanés they held a
greatly blessed meeting in the parlor of their friend Daniel Brun.
They were always saddened, especially after a meeting at Saint Giles,
by the noticeable scarcity of men in meetings. Indeed, they found in
their meetings generally in France mostly women and children.

One of the morning meetings in the Friends' house at Nismes was a most
remarkable instance of the overshadowing of the divine Spirit. The
solemnity was most impressive, so that many wept before a word was
uttered. Sybil Jones was favored to see the time to rise and testify
to the people that a "pure spiritual worship is what is required, and
is the highest joy of Christians." The visitors attended meeting at
the school supported by Friends in England, and felt it to be a
profitable occasion for all present.

Sybil Jones's mind was often occupied with deep thoughtfulness of the
infinite importance of their mission to this land, and she besought
the Lord earnestly that their dependence might be on no other, and
that all their labors might be Heaven-directed. It was very cheering
to these tired laborers to have persons come to them after meetings to
acknowledge that they had been strengthened and to converse on those
things which pertain to godliness.

They attended a meeting sustained by young men in Nismes for general
improvement, reading useful books, etc. They were invited most
cordially to come by the young men, who told them that if they wished
to speak to them on religious subjects, they would be pleased to hear
them. E. and S. Jones felt it a providential opening, and S. Jones was
led to speak from the text, "The Lord loveth an early sacrifice."

They felt especially moved to thank the Lord for the "way" so
wonderfully made for them. They had not had to ask for a place to hold
a meeting, but when they felt the impression a place was always
offered. This seemed most wonderful to them, as the laws of France
forbid an assembly exceeding twenty persons at any place except in a
"temple" or consecrated place. Sometimes they had but "crumbs" to hand
out to the spiritually hungry, but at other times they had abundant
refreshing from the Master's table. They prayed ever that the
"creature might be abased" and that whether in "heights or depths"
they might wear the entire "armor of faith."

On the last day of the year 1853 they were at the home of Lydia
Majolier at Congènies. Sybil Jones writes: "This is the close of the
second year since I left the land I so dearly love. The retrospect of
the whole affords consolatory reflection. With the remembrance of
innumerable mercies my poor little sacrifices sink into
insignificance. May they be accepted by Him who looks at the heart! If
any good has been done, it is the Lord's doings.--Grant, most merciful
God, that the year 1854 may all be devoted to Thy service, with more
faith and love!"

The next two-months' meeting was a season of great encouragement. The
meeting for worship was large, and the Master honored it with His
life-giving presence. The meeting for business was a blessed season,
and all felt that the power of the Lord had been abroad in the land;
two members were received and two young men requested to be admitted.
At meeting of the school committee it was concluded "to solicit
subscriptions from Friends here, and see what amount could be raised,
and propose to Friends in England that the school be continued under
the care of Justine Paradon as superintendent and Clarence Benoit as
teacher, and that a school for boys be opened under the instruction of
Jules Paradon, with an assistant. The committee were encouraged to
persevere in the work, as the school had already proved a blessing to
the youth, and by some changes for the better might be more so."

A long rainy period hindered these dear Friends from holding many
meetings. They occupied the time when they were confined to the house
in writing to America, studying French, etc.

At a meeting held in an outlying village at the house of a woman named
Ann Mapit all seemed tendered before the Lord. Near the close a woman
left and went to her aged father, who had not attended a religious
meeting for fifty years, and begged him to go and hear these people,
"for they preached as though they would take them all to heaven." The
old man came and was quite moved, and spoke highly of the meeting,
although he had said on a former occasion, when a meeting was proposed
for a Friend, that they "would beat the drums." They saw plainly the
wonder-working power of God. On every side they saw evidences of the
"shaking" power.

In Calvisson the pasteur himself, a kind Christian man, chose to
interpret for them, which they thought a great condescension, as it
would doubtless expose him to ridicule from some who did not approve
of a woman's gift in the ministry. They held a powerful meeting at
Congènies, and found that many were there who had not attended a
religious meeting before for twenty years. They thought it prudent for
a time, being much worn by long service, to rest and try and gain some
strength to go on. Eli Jones's health was especially poor. After this
short respite they were much refreshed for the work, and attended a
meeting at Auvergne numbering fully eight hundred or a thousand
people. They appreciated fully the support of the pasteurs, which was
so lovingly tendered them.

They felt everywhere the disastrous effects of the degraded position
of women. Having so much manual labor to perform, they are unfitted
for the proper care of their children; consequently, both their minds
and bodies are frequently uncared for, and the home, that great
training-school, is not rendered as bright and attractive as it should
be. This, S. Jones thought, is what makes the French people so
volatile and often skeptical. The places of public amusement are often
sought in preference to the home.

Their work among the soldiers was a wonderful thing. Many came to
their meetings, and, laying aside their swords and taking off their
caps, sat meekly down to hear the glad tidings of "peace on earth and
good-will toward men." A remarkable movement sprang up among them.
One of their number said that at one time but three of them met for
worship, but lately nine had joined their number, and they felt much
encouraged. Many meetings were attended by these soldiers, who seemed
to appeal directly to Eli and Sybil Jones's sympathies.

They held a meeting at St. Hippolyte with the few Friends there, at
the Moravian meeting-house, and were very urgently pressed to hold
more meetings in that place. Fears were often felt by their friends
that order could not be maintained in their meetings, owing to the
novelty of the thing; but they always, even in very large audiences,
met with the utmost respect and attention. They went on one occasion
to Marseilles, and took a short trip on the Mediterranean, and felt
that they gained some strength by the change. Sybil Jones, accompanied
by some of her friends and the good pasteur Abausit, who had been such
a kind friend and interpreter, went to Montpellier to visit the
prison. They were much pleased with the neatness and order of the
entire establishment, and met the most courteous treatment from the
chaplain and director. There was much tenderness shown by the
prisoners. There were in the prison eight hundred Catholic and
fourteen Protestant prisoners. They were not allowed to speak to the
former, but were enabled to pray earnestly for the other poor souls.
They held a very large meeting in the afternoon, and it was to them a
precious season. Sybil Jones visited two prisoners in their cells, and
pleaded tenderly with them.

They then returned to Nismes and held a large meeting. One of the
pasteurs told them, in explanation of their kind reception on every
hand, that the Society of Friends moved along so prudently, peaceably,
and happily that they were received by all as Christian brethren. At a
meeting in St. Hippolyte great contrition was felt by a man who had
not attended meeting for many years, and would not permit his wife to
go, and forbade his sister to enter his house because she was
religious. He received his sister after the meeting, and seemed
greatly humbled. They felt that the Lord was speaking through his
instruments, and were encouraged to go forward. They held many large
and much-blessed meetings at Gallargues and Congènies, and visited
many to whom they were attracted, as they showed a concern for their
souls' welfare. Many came to inquire of them the "way," and they
formed many acquaintances and felt a binding interest in the people,
whose souls were so precious.

When the two-months' meeting again assembled they had renewed cause
for encouragement. It was a meeting graciously ordered by the Lord.
The meeting for worship on First-day morning was remarkably covered
with divine power and goodness, and Eli Jones seemed unusually
"clothed upon with gospel unction." The meeting for business admitted
into membership a man who had been a Methodist minister, and received
requests from twelve others. They were once invited to the home of a
good pasteur named Mensard, where they met five other pasteurs, and
their conversation was most pleasant concerning the ministry and
"things of the kingdom."

And now they felt that the burden of souls in the south of France was
rolled off, and they were sweetly released for service in other
fields. They held a large parting meeting, and many came to take
leave, among them a poor soldier in whom they were greatly interested.
He had been ordered to Constantinople without the companionship of any
of his religious friends. Of this they were not aware, and it was
remarkable that they felt impressed to read the ninety-first Psalm,
which seemed so suited to his case, and Sybil Jones was wonderfully
helped to pray for the poor soldier. The parting with the
school-children was an affecting season, and they at last set off,
leaving a large group of friends at the hotel-door for whom their
hearts reached out in tenderness and love.

They went to Avignon, and from there by boat on the Rhone to Lyons. On
First day they attended three meetings in that city; where they found
an earnest, seeking people. They lodged with a dear friend who was
received into membership at the last meeting. He seemed to be exerting
a religious influence about him. They enjoyed their intercourse with
his interesting family, and M. J. Lecky offered to take their youngest
son, Benjamin, to England to obtain a knowledge of the English
language; which pleased his parents and he was committed to her care.
They spent one day in the great capital, and admired the magnificent
and stupendous works of art with which Paris is adorned. Sailed from
Havre for Southampton. There they attended one meeting, and thence
proceeded to London. They attended Suffolk quarterly meeting. The
power of the Lord was felt, especially by the young. Lodged at
Richard Dikes Alexander's.

In London they lodged at Thomas Norton's, and attended London
quarterly meeting. Attended Brighton select meeting, and stayed at
Daniel Prior Hack's. They also attended meetings at Croydon and Lewes,
and Gloucester quarterly meeting; all of which were honored by the
Master's presence. On the 11th of 4th mo. they set off for Plymouth,
and soon after sailed for the dear home in America, leaving all their
work with the Master, for it was all done in His name. They carried
with them sweet memories of the aid and fellowship extended to them by
the French pasteurs. They also carried with them numerous written
testimonials of the pasteurs' appreciation of their labor of love
among them. The following is a letter from the pasteurs and elders of
Calvisson expressive of their feeling toward these laborers in the
Master's vineyard who had come from a distant land:

       *       *       *       *       *

"We, the pasteurs and elders of the church of Calvisson (Gard),
declare that we have received the visit of Eli and Sybil Jones,
ministers of the Society of Friends. They have held two edifying
public meetings in our temple, before a numerous and attentive
audience, as well as a special meeting for the children of our
schools. Moreover, they have held a pastoral conference at Calvisson
(Gard), at which eleven pasteurs of our consistory and the neighboring
churches were present. We are happy to thank these dear friends for
the evangelical words they have brought to us. Their presence has been
for us a means of edification and of encouragement. Their prayers and
their exhortations, impressed with great spirituality, have produced
deep convictions and been visibly blessed, and have penetrated into
the hearts of all those who have had the privilege of hearing them.
The interest they have manifested for the salvation of souls and the
advancement of the kingdom of God has touched us in a lively manner,
and has given us the impression that they do not propose any other end
nor any other recompense for their sacrifices and their labors. They
have spoken amongst us the words of peace and charity, nor has
anything in their discourses wounded any faithful soul, either as
regards his faith or his individual opinions. We ask that in an
especial manner the divine blessing may attend the spiritual ministry
of Mr. and Mrs. Jones. We desire that the dear brother and sister may
be instrumental in shedding around them, wherever the Lord may call
them, that humble confidence in the wisdom from above that
characterizes all their discourses and their lives. May the Father of
spirits, who holds our hearts in His hand, grant to their prayers and
their efforts the awakening of souls and of consciences! Our Church
will always preserve a precious remembrance of these dear friends, and
sends them, through us, the expression of its prayers and its
gratitude. We declare that we know individually that Eli and Sybil
Jones have also visited the greater part of the numerous churches
which surround us, and that everywhere their preaching has been heard
with the same interest and the same edification. All our brethren have
been, like ourselves, moved and charmed by the unction and the grace
of their Christian exhortations. In the belief thereof we have given
to them the present certificate.

"TEMPIE, Pastor-President of the Consistory of Calvisson.

"THEODORE ABAUSIT, Pastor.

"REANT, Moderator of the Consistory.

"C. BERNARY, Treasurer.

                         "CALVISSON (Gard), _March 10, 1854_."




CHAPTER X.

_IN THE MAINE LEGISLATURE._

     "When Christ came into the World peace was sung; and when He went
     out of the world peace was bequeathed."


The first decided action of the Maine Legislature in regard to the
sale of intoxicating liquors was taken in the autumn of 1846. Much
work had been done during the two preceding years in the towns to
arouse the people to the necessity of bringing about an entire
revolution, and the temperance organizations worked zealously to base
all the structure they built on total abstinence. The foundation truth
was laid by Jesus Christ in Judea in words that meant, "If any one of
thy passions or appetites causes thee to do wrong, cut it off and cast
it from thee." The _necessity_ for total abstinence was vigorously
enforced by Eli Jones whenever he spoke. Enough believers in
temperance were sent to the Legislature in 1846 to pass a law "to
restrict the sale of intoxicating drinks." This was followed in 1851
by an "Act for the suppression of drinking-houses and tippling-shops."
This was the well-known "Maine Law," and forbade the manufacture for
sale of intoxicating liquors, except cider. Unadulterated cider in
quantities of five gallons and upward might be sold. There were
thirty-nine other sections directed against liquor-selling,
drunkenness, and the habit of drinking in the community. This law
accomplished a very beneficial work. One of its great results was to
bring the temperance question more emphatically before the other
States and nations. At home it made drinking disgraceful and took away
to a great extent the temptation from the young men. While in small
towns it was nearly a perfect success in closing all shops, in the
cities there was not vigilance enough to carry out its purpose, and
many felt that more vigor must be used.

Three years later, in 1854, the town of China elected Eli Jones by a
large majority over two other candidates to represent it in the
"House" of the Legislature. It was expected that he would carry to the
State capital the views which he unceasingly expressed at home, and
that he would agitate a still further reform, or, as he expressed it,
"put new teeth into the old law." The choice was wholly unexpected to
him, and he was working for the election of his lifelong friend,
Ambrose Abbot. He was given a prominent place on the committees, and
especially the Committee on Temperance. He worked almost continuously
to bring about the desired legislation, but seldom spoke, most of his
work being in the committee.

This was a memorable winter at Augusta, and many excellent men were
there in the different branches of the State government. It was a
great opportunity for a true Friend to show to legislators the worth
of his principles. Eli Jones was the only man who refused to rise when
the governor called upon the united House and Senate to take the oath
of office, and he stood alone to give _affirmation_ that he would
faithfully perform his work. As was said before, Eli Jones, though
earnestly at work for the good of the people of the State, did not
address the House. Some members, who knew him intimately and wished to
call him to his feet, arranged a plan, not as a personal jest, but as
a scheme to gain a speech. In the course of the session the
appointment of a major-general to the second division of the Maine
militia came in order.

In 1838, Maine had undertaken to assert by force of arms her title to
a region near the northern boundary claimed both by her and by Canada.
There was much mustering of troops at the capital, and fully ten
thousand soldiers marched through the deep snow and fierce cold to
drive the enemy from Aroostook county. Though they were brave and
ready for battle, happily no blood was shed and peace was wisely made;
but the "Aroostook War" became famous as a subject of banter and many
jokes were made at the expense of its officers. The old nursery rhyme
was quoted:

    "The king of France, with forty thousand men,
    Marched up the hill and then--marched down again."

Primarily for these two reasons, to urge Eli Jones to his feet and to
joke the former officers by appointing a Quaker, an avowed
peace-advocate, he was chosen unanimously to fill the vacancy in the
office of major-general.

The nomination was so wholly unexpected that he was at first perplexed
at his situation. Much was at stake and wisdom and caution were
needed. Having his horse at Augusta, he drove that night to his home
at Dirigo, fifteen miles away, chiefly perhaps to discuss his course
with his family and the Friends most suitable for counsel. After
talking into the night with his brother-in-law, James van Blarcom, he
walked the floor alone until the new day was dawning. On arriving
again at Augusta he found the occasion far more important than he had
anticipated. The news had spread that the Quaker was to speak in
regard to his appointment; and the Representatives' Hall was crowded,
not only most of the Senate being present, but numbers from the city.
The subject of the business was introduced, and Eli Jones, rising,
spoke in substance as follows:

"Whatever my ambition may have been in times past, my aspirations have
never embraced such an office as this as an object of desire. I can
assure the House that my election as major-general was an honor wholly
unexpected. It is true that when the governor announced to this House
the existence of the vacancy, a member privately remarked to me, 'I
shall vote for you,' but I replied to him, declining the honor and
proposed to return the compliment.

"To my mind there is something ominous in this occurrence. I regard it
as one of the wonderful developments of the times. Who of us that
assembled ten years ago in quiet and retired places to affix our
signatures to pledges of abstinence from intoxicating drinks would
have believed that in 1855 we should be elected to the seats we now
occupy amidst the overwhelming rejoicing of the people, pledged to the
support of the Maine Law? Who that at that time had visited the
plantations of the South, and seen the slave toiling under the lash of
the taskmaster, would have believed that in 1855 the people of the
larger portion of this great land would have roused up with a stern
determination to subdue the encroachments of the slave-power, and
pledge themselves never to cease their labors until the wrongs of
slavery should be ameliorated--nay more, till slavery itself should be
abolished? Still more wonderful, who would have believed that the
State of Maine, that a few years since gloried in an Aroostook
expedition, and was noisy with military training and the din of arms,
would in 1855 exhibit the spectacle of a peaceable member of the
Society of Friends being elected to the post of major-general of a
division of the militia, and that too by the Representatives of the
people in their legislative capacity?

"But I have endeavored to regulate my own conduct by the principle
that legislation should not go very far in advance of public
sentiment, and it seems to me that this election may possibly be ahead
of that sentiment. I submit this suggestion in all candor. It is
generally understood that I entertain peculiar views in respect to the
policy of war. If, however, I am an exponent of the views of the
Legislature on this subject, I will cheerfully undertake to serve the
State in the capacity indicated. With much pleasure I should stand
before the militia of the second division and give such orders as I
think best. The first would be, 'Ground Arms!' The second would be,
'Right about face! beat your swords into ploughshares and your spears
into pruning-hooks, and learn war no more!' And I should then dismiss
every man to his farm and his merchandise, with an admonition to read
daily at his fireside the New Testament and ponder upon its tidings
of 'Peace on earth and good-will to men.'

"If, on the other hand, it should be determined that my election is a
little in advance of the times, I am willing, as a good citizen, to
bow to the majesty of law, and, as a member of the Legislature, to
consult its dignity and decline the exalted position tendered me by
the House; and I will now decline it. With pleasure I will surrender
to the House this trust and the honor and retire to private life."

This speech was delivered amid interruptions of loud applause, and
made a great sensation throughout the State. And not in Maine only; it
was commented on in many of the newspapers and appeared in the columns
of English journals. Pictures of the fighting Quaker were made, with
the order to his troops printed below. It even came out in an African
journal; so that what seemed like an unimportant pleasantry on the
part of the members of the Legislature gave Eli Jones an opportunity
to preach peace to a very extended audience, and his voice was heard
far beyond the little State capital. From this time he was regarded
with much respect by all the members, and he received encouragement
and support in whatever he desired to accomplish.

At the close of the session he called to thank the governor for his
kindness to him and his help in different ways, and he remarked to the
latter that he had been in rather a peculiar place during the winter
and had felt somewhat like a "speckled bird." The governor said, "Mr.
Jones, what you call being a 'speckled bird' has given you more
influence than anything else could possibly have done." Whatever he
may have accomplished in other lines during his term of office, he
gave powerful testimony in favor of peace and temperance and against
the use of oaths, and he went back to his quiet farm in China
thoroughly respected by all with whom he had been associated.


                    OAK GROVE SEMINARY.

It may be a fitting place to speak of his connection with Oak Grove
Seminary, as he was at work for its interests not long after this
time. As I have in my possession a letter written by him in regard to
the beginning and early days of the school, I will insert it here:

"Oak Grove Seminary was started about the year 1850 by John D. Lang,
Samuel Taylor, Ebenezer Frye, Alden Sampson, and Alton Pope. They had
in view the guarded and religious education of the children of
Friends. It was to be a '_select_' school. William H. Hobbie was the
first principal. I visited his school and thought him a wonderful
teacher. He stood before his class without a book, and seemed to be
himself the book. Up to that time I had never seen the like. Franklin
Paige, the present publisher of the _Friends' Review_, followed
William Hobbie in the principalship. Financially, the undertaking
after a while proved a failure, and the school was closed.

"At a meeting of the yearly meeting's committee on education, held in
China in the autumn of 1856, I advocated an effort being made to open
Oak Grove Seminary again. It was opposed by some on the ground that we
needed primary schools more than high schools: to that idea my answer
was, We must first have high schools to prepare teachers for the
primary schools. A meeting of the original proprietors of the seminary
was called, and the question put to them, 'Are you willing to have
other Friends join you in opening the seminary?' Samuel Taylor
replied, 'We want to know first what you will do; we do not want to
depend upon a rope of sand.'--'What are the conditions on which we can
join you?'--'Do as much as we have; give $2500.' To this Alden Sampson
replied, 'It is useless to think of opening the school with $2500; we
must have $15,000. If you will raise that amount I will give $1000.'
Ebenezer Frye responded as liberally. A committee was appointed to
raise the fifteen thousand dollars. Eli Jones, William A. Sampson,
Joseph Estes, and Thomas B. Nichols were the chief workers in raising
the proposed sum. They were successful. It was nearly all subscribed
by six hundred Maine Friends. They constituted an association for the
opening and management of Oak Grove Seminary.

"In the summer and autumn of 1857 the boarding-house was built. James
van Blarcom was chosen principal, and Sarah B. Taber of Albion
teacher. It was found that James van Blarcom's engagements would not
allow of his occupying the place for one year, consequently Eli Jones
took this position for the first year. The school opened in the 12th
month, 1857. The season had been wet, and the building and preparation
for the school proceeded slowly. Much hard work devolved upon the
principal and teachers. The pupils were numerous, and the spring term
brought 140. A case of scarlet fever, resulting in the death of a
lovely girl, rapidly reduced the number, which has not been reached
since.

"At the opening of the second year Albert Smiley became principal and
James van Blarcom governor and boarding-master.

"Albert Smiley was followed by Augustine Jones, and he by Richard M.
Jones.

"Oak Grove has furnished principals for Friends' School at Providence
for nearly a quarter of a century, and to the Penn Charter School of
Philadelphia for about thirteen years. Ten or twelve of its pupils
have been or are ministers in the Society of Friends; some are to-day
leading business-men.

"The writer of this notice has been connected with the management of
the institution for the last thirty years, sometimes influentially,
sometimes wellnigh powerless. As the record has been made, so it will
stand. I have rejoiced in the times of its prosperity; I have wept
over the ashes of its fine buildings, its library, its geological
museum. I now see the second temple rising from the ashes of the first
with an unlooked-for splendor. May it long stand for the benefit of
our race and the glory of God!"




CHAPTER XI.

_IN WASHINGTON._

    "Follow with reverent steps the great example
      Of Him whose holy work was 'doing good;'
    So shall the wide earth seem our Father's temple,
      Each loving life a psalm of gratitude.
    Then shall all shackles fall; the stormy clangor
      Of wild war-music o'er the earth shall cease;
    Love shall tread out the baleful fire of anger,
      And in its ashes plant the tree of peace."

    WHITTIER.


Sybil Jones was at work in the Southern States during a part of the
year 1860, and returned to her Northern home only a few weeks before
the attack on Fort Sumter. The sound of war carried sorrow to the
hearts of herself and her husband. They were loyal to their country
and the great cause of human freedom, but they were loyal also to the
Prince of peace.

"They prayed for love to lose the chain; 'Twas shorn by battle's axe
in twain!"

For years they had longed to see the light of freedom break in on the
South, but they had hoped no less for the day "when the war-drum
should throb no longer" and universal peace should gladden the long
watchers for its dawn. Now they saw the oncoming of a most terrible
civil war, threatening the life of the nation. They mourned for
mothers and fathers who must see their boys go to the field; they
thought of the homes shattered for ever; but they did not yet realize
that their eldest son was to go forth to return only on his
shield--that the son who had urged them to go forward in the work of
love in Liberia, their noble son, was to be demanded as a sacrifice.

The war was hardly begun when James Parnel Jones resolved to
volunteer. President Lincoln's call seemed a call to him. He had been
a logical reader of Sumner, and had closely watched the development of
slavery, and to his mind the war to save our nationality would
necessarily free the slaves. He wrote from the South: "Did I not think
this war would loose the slave's chains I would break my sword and go
home."

That it was hard for him to go when his parents were praying for peace
there can be no doubt, but his mind was filled with the thought of
saving the life of a nation, and he certainly felt that the path of
duty was in that direction.

The members of the Society of Friends felt almost universally that
they owed allegiance to two fatherlands. "There was a patriotism of
the soul whose claim absolved them from the other and terrene fealty,"
and there was a manifest inconsistency between being members of
"Christ's invisible kingdom" and taking arms in support of a dominion
measured by acres.[7] Some felt otherwise, and they took upon
themselves the hard duty of turning from society and friends to do
battle.

  [7] Whittier thus gives the position which the Society of Friends
  held:

        "Nursed in the faith that Truth alone is strong
        In the endurance which outwearies wrong,
        With meek persistence baffling brutal force,
        And trusting God against the universe;
        Are doomed to watch a strife we may not share
        With other weapons than a patriot's prayer;

        "Yet owning with full hearts and moistened eyes,
        The awful beauty of self-sacrifice,
        And wrung by keenest sympathy for all
        Who give their loved ones for the living wall
        'Twixt law and treason."

James Parnel came home wounded, but returned to his command before his
furlough had expired. He went back with the feeling that the days left
him were few: he indistinctly saw what awaited him. In an engagement
to carry a strong point held by the enemy at Crystal Springs, near
Washington, he was struck by a ball from a sharpshooter. The ball had
glanced from a tree and brought him a mortal wound. The two hearts
deeply wrung to have their son go into the war at all were pierced at
the news of his death. We can hardly conceive their grief for him for
whom they had so earnestly prayed and agonized in his absence.
Henceforth whoever wore a soldier's uniform had a place in Sybil
Jones's heart. Her unspent love went out to all who were suffering on
the field and in the hospitals, and she could not rest at home.
Obtaining the needful credentials, she took up in a new form the
arduous service of her active and consecrated life, bearing the gospel
cheer to the wounded and dying in Philadelphia and Washington. She
could tell the soldiers of her own son, and so touch their hearts, and
her sympathy and love brought joy to many a poor sufferer. The
aggregate of her visits shows that she preached and talked to thirty
thousand soldiers. To and from the field of her labor, at the dépôts,
wherever she saw a uniform, she went to speak gentle words and to bear
good news; and only those to whom the balm came can tell the good
accomplished. Once more she met a kind reception from all. Soldiers
and prisoners welcomed her, and those high in power listened with
respect to her messages. She comforted the widow of President Lincoln,
and twice stood before his successor, President Johnson, and
faithfully warned him to rely on the Ruler of the universe for counsel
in guiding the helm of state.

She left home in 1st mo., 1865, with a certificate for service. On her
way to the field in which she felt called to labor she visited her
children in Philadelphia, and attended meeting at Germantown, where
she was favored with a gospel message. She also attended Twelfth
street meeting and the large quarterly meeting in Arch street, where
she was constrained to speak for her Master. She then proceeded to
Baltimore, accompanied by Lydia Hawkes of Manchester, Maine. In this
city she met her dear husband, who had been separated from her for
three months. He was much worn by his labors as distributing agent of
the New England Friends. He had distributed to the necessities of the
freedmen food, clothing, beds, etc., according to the quantity sent to
the mission. He had visited them from hut to hut, administering as
well to their spiritual as to their temporal needs. They together
attended Baltimore quarterly meeting, and on the 9th of 2d mo. arrived
in Washington.

Sybil Jones rested a few days, and then commenced the labors for which
she was liberated. Her first service was in Judiciary Square. She,
with her companion, was taken there in an ambulance, and they were
preceded and introduced by their dear friend Jane James, who often
gave them like aid. They were pleasantly received, and permission was
granted them to perform any religious service. They visited nine wards
and had service in the chapel, speaking words of comfort to those
confined to their beds. Much seriousness and tenderness was apparent.
They also went to the hospital at Armory Square, visited all the wards
of the sick and wounded, and had chapel service. It seemed that some
were turning to the Lord.

Eli Jones went for a short time to Philadelphia to try and gain a
little strength, being very weary with his labors among the colored
people. The mud was very deep and the work of distributing very hard.
Their son, Richard Mott, accompanied his father, having spent the
vacation from his studies at Haverford College with his parents at
their post of duty.

Camp Hospital was also visited. They were taken out in an ambulance by
Dr. Upton, who was courteous in every way. The poor wounded ones
seemed thankful for the interest exhibited for their souls' welfare.
Carm Hospital was visited, and all freedom was given them to point the
sick and suffering to the Lamb of God. Many were in tears at the close
of service in the chapel. Her own torn mother's heart gave Sybil Jones
great earnestness in prayer for the bereaved ones in the far-away
homes as she was called upon to attend the funerals of the soldiers.
Often more than one coffin stood on a form before them, and the
occasion was made a solemn admonition to the survivors to be ready
when the Lord should call. One of the meetings was attended by a
surgeon who had led a profane and dissolute life. He was reached by
the Spirit of God, and in a meeting rose and said, "I have been living
for hell; I looked toward it as my home, and fully expected it; but
God has had mercy on my soul and pardoned my sins, and I mean to serve
Him the rest of my days." Nearly all were in tears. When the service
was over the soldiers rushed to his arms weeping with joy. He said to
them: "I have treated you badly and sworn at you, but by the grace of
God I will never swear again." His conversion had a wonderful effect
and was a powerful testimony for the truth.

Columbia Hospital was visited. They found a very conscientious, loving
superintendent in one of the wards, a lady named O. L. Pomeroy. In
this ward they held a most blessed meeting and made an appointment for
another.

They were obliged to move from their lodgings on account of sickness
in the family, and were most kindly received by their good friends
William and Jane James. They found it a great privilege to be so cared
for.

They went to Lincoln Hospital, where were five thousand men. Their
ministrations were much blessed: at a later visit they found four
hundred more wounded soldiers from City Point. The afflicted men were
all broken down with suffering and were ready for the consolation of
the gospel. The field indeed seemed white unto the harvest. A lad told
them that he had been in the Crimean War, and had served two years in
this. He was an Englishman. He showed them a silver medal gained by
valor in the former war. Sybil Jones said, "I hope thou art seeking a
crown in that higher warfare?" He quickly replied, "I am pressing
after it with all my might; I am looking to Jesus as my Captain."

She sighed for "universal peace to reign" as she witnessed the untold
miseries of cruel war. It was wonderfully touching to hear the bright
testimonies of those poor feeble ones who had lain for months on their
emaciated backs. Many were passing away. No one could bear to tell one
poor dying youth that he could not live, and in all tenderness Sybil
Jones said to him, "I think thou cannot get well; what is thy hope?"
He replied, "In Jesus I believe; he has forgiven my sins. Tell my
father and mother I have gone to heaven." Some seemed insensible of
their danger, but were faithfully warned to prepare to meet their God.
As these faithful messengers of good tidings saw the terribly mangled
brought in, and beheld their patience and tenderness, they were sick
at heart and prayed for the terrible tide of war to be stopped. They
met with much kindness from Surgeon-general Barnes, who gave Sybil
Jones a pass to all the hospitals in the United States, and a special
one for the department of the South, with half-fare on Government
transports.

Sybil Jones was presented to General Auger, the military commander of
the District of Columbia. He said that he was much pleased with her
mission. He was spoken to concerning the interests of eternity. She
was presented to Secretary Stanton and Colonel Harder, and was pleased
with their demeanor and readiness to aid her work in every possible
way. The Centre Guardhouse was visited and its four hundred inmates
lovingly warned to be ready.

On 4th mo. 1st, 1865, great excitement was felt in the capital city,
as the President was personally directing affairs at Richmond, and the
fall of the rebellious city was hourly anticipated. On the morning of
the 3d came the joyful intelligence that the Confederate capital had
been evacuated, and a great tide of rejoicing swept over the loyal
States. Sybil Jones describes the scene in Washington as follows:

"I was very fearful the inhabitants would be too full of joy to
remember their great Deliverer and give thanks unto His name. We went
to Camp Fry, and had to press our way through the throng, often
pausing to note the variety of emotions exhibited--all joyful, but
neither ridiculous nor profane. A subdued awe seemed to hold in check
the lawless and dissipated, and tears of joy suffused the eyes of
passers-by. The whistles of the engines, the roar of cannon, the music
of the various bands, and the shouts of the multitude, mingled with
the prayers, praises, and hallelujahs of the colored people, some down
on their knees in the dust of the street, others dancing like David
before the ark of the covenant on its return to its place,--all
commingled in one mighty jubilant song which I trust was not devoid of
the grateful tribute of praise to the great God of heaven and earth.
We at length entered the ward of the sick and wounded of two
regiments, about two thousand men. As we passed in I said, 'To-day is
the nation's jubilee, and we have come to present our thank-offering
with you, as you cannot join the street celebration.' A smile and
'Thank you' went round and brightened up the scene. We read a
beautiful psalm and bore a testimony to the power and goodness of God,
not only in hope of the full and entire emancipation of the slaves,
but in disclosing to us to-day, behind the folds of the dark
war-cloud, the silver lining of peace. We besought them to come to the
Lamb of God, seeing his mercy and loving-kindness had been so great to
them as to spare them amid the din of battle when their comrades had
fallen all around them."

Sybil Jones and her friends visited Seminary Hospital, and found among
the wounded a young Friend from Illinois, who was much comforted by
hearing the gospel tidings from a member of the Society he loved so
well. A sad scene presented itself in Douglas Hospital. There had just
arrived three hundred terribly mangled soldiers, some passing away,
some in agony with lost limbs. It was an indescribably painful scene,
and the one "Physician of value" was recommended to the poor
sufferers.

They addressed many prisoners of war, deserters from the South, and
refugees. They were listened to with seriousness, and many were in
tears. On a visit to Stanton Hospital, Sybil Jones met a young man
from Maine named Eben Dinsmore. He told her that her son, James Parnel
Jones, had been his captain when he first enlisted, and afterward his
major. He spoke in the highest terms of his kindness to the men and
his unspotted name, and said he heard a soldier of the same regiment
say that he was with him from the time he was wounded until his death,
and never saw a person die so happy, singing as he passed away.

At this time Sybil Jones and friends moved their lodgings, at the kind
invitation of their friend Isaac Newton, to make their home with him
for a while.

On the 15th of 4th mo. came the dreadful news that the good man who
had stood so nobly at the head of the nation in this dreadful crisis
had gone from works to reward, slain by the hand of the assassin. The
great joy was turned into deepest mourning that he who was so endeared
to all loyal hearts could not be with them to enjoy the restful time
of peace. They held a meeting in the rooms of the Agricultural
Department, and were comforted in their great grief by the presence of
Him who said to the troubled waves, "Peace, be still." A visit was
made to Stone Hospital, and it was found that the suffering ones there
had had little religious instruction, but seemed grateful for
Christian counsel. One poor fellow, who was dying and felt his lost
condition, was entreated to look to the "Lamb of God."

A young lady came one day to Isaac Newton's and asked if a Quaker lady
who preached was there. She said that some one had been thinking how
appropriate it would be to have a Friends' meeting, for the awful
stroke inclined them to be silent. Isaac Newton offered his parlors,
and Sybil Jones consented. She says in her diary: "We met at seven
o'clock, and it was one of the most blessed seasons I have enjoyed in
this city. The silence seemed to have healing in its wings and balm
to the stricken spirit." Much service was done in Emory Hospital; the
poor fellows on their beds were visited one by one, and each was
lovingly spoken to. They held meetings at Emory Hospital for the
convalescent soldiers, and by all they were most gladly received.
Harwood and Finley Hospitals were fields of labor, and in each the
gospel message was thankfully received. At first the surgeon in charge
said that he never allowed service in the wards where the men were
badly wounded or passing away. Sybil Jones said to him, "Doctor,
wouldst thou take the responsibility of keeping the gospel from dying
men, the suffering soldiers of our country, far from their homes and
mothers?"--"No," said he, "but I do not want them disturbed."--She
said, "Our services never disturb; we are a quiet people." She then
told him that she had a pass to all hospitals in the United States,
but would not insist upon entering without his full permission. He
then gave it most freely. The service was gladly received, and it
seemed like drops of rain on a dry and thirsty land.

Sybil Jones felt that she must bear a message of her heavenly Father's
love and sympathy to the widow of the lamented President. She had been
ill, confined to her bed in the White House, since the fatal stroke.
Sybil Jones says of the visit: "All crushed and broken under the heavy
stroke, I spoke to her of the heavenly Chastener's love and care, and
said that He could bind up the broken heart and give peace. She
cordially invited us to come again. Her two sons, one about ten and
the other about twenty, were at home, and very affectionate and
attentive to their suffering mother, though themselves evidently
feeling very deeply the sad event."

Sybil Jones felt that she was given a message for Secretary Stanton.
She in company with others went to his house in the evening, and,
passing a guard of soldiers, was most kindly received by his
interesting wife, the Secretary being absent. They spent an hour in
pleasant conversation, and then the Secretary came and greeted them
kindly. Very soon silence reigned, and Sybil Jones, after asking
permission, rose and addressed the Secretary, telling him that as he
had been raised up by the Almighty for the important duties of his
office, he must dispense justice and judgment in the fear of God,
plead the cause of the oppressed, and humbly in all things do the will
of the great King, and the eternal God should be his refuge. She told
him that, though his life had been sought, the angel of the Lord had
guarded him, and if his trust was in Him no harm should befall him.
After her remarks the Secretary rose and thanked her most profoundly,
and told her that her gospel message was most grateful, and said that
he needed the prayers of the people and that his trust was in God.

Sybil Jones went again by invitation to call on the President's widow.
She was still in bed, much prostrated. The rooms were all lighted as
in the days when their master paced through them with the weight of
his mission pressing upon him. One lone sentinel guarded the
mansion--a strange contrast to the past, when a strong guard was
deemed necessary. The desolate lady gave them a sweet welcome, and
told them some cheering incidents of her husband's last days. She
said that several times during the last day he lived he said, "This is
the happiest day of my life." He seemed to feel that the great work
was done, and he rejoiced that the cloud which hung over his beloved
America had lifted. Sybil Jones then spoke to her cheeringly of the
sympathy of Jesus with the sorrowing sisters of Bethany--that in her
boys she had a charge to keep for the King. After a season of feeling
prayer they parted tenderly.

Stone Hospital, a beautiful home for the weary, suffering soldiers,
was visited, and a wonderfully convicting season it proved. Sybil
Jones was greatly saddened on a visit to the jail by its filthy
appearance. Old and young were crowded in together, and the young in
crime were by association with the vicious and degraded hastened in
their downward course.

Feeling that she was called to labor in Alexandria, Sybil Jones went
across the river to that place, and found a kind welcome at the
temporary home of James P. Barlow, he, with his family, having fled
from his own home on account of rebel persecution and confiscation.
She had a meeting with the convalescents in the colored hospital, and
had most interesting services in Slough Barracks. She also had a large
meeting at the Soldiers' Rest, where she addressed thousands of
soldiers, all orderly and attentive, while a tear might often be seen
tracing down the bronzed cheeks. Wonderful changes were apparent in
this place since the abolition of slavery. Slave-pens were
appropriated to useful purposes. One was used as a court of justice,
where traitors took the oath of allegiance to their country and to the
government.

Sybil Jones then returned to Washington, and did what she could in the
hospitals there, and then, feeling again the call to Alexandria, she
returned to that place, and after more service owned and blessed by
the Master she left this great field of labor and went once more to
her children in Philadelphia, and thence to her own home.

On the 16th of 4th mo., in 1866, she again left her home, accompanied
as far as Providence by her son Grelet, and bearing a certificate from
her friends granting freedom for such service as she was called to
perform. She attended meetings at Salem, Lynn, and Burlington,
visiting prisons, hospitals, and reformatory institutions. She went to
Richmond, Va., and attended the small meeting of Friends there, and
with them praised the Lord for bringing them through the bloody
rebellion and allowing them once more to assemble under the banner of
peace. She attended many meetings here; had a meeting in a
penitentiary, where the poor inmates had not heard the gospel sound
for five years, since before the dreadful struggle. Many Bibles were
distributed and families visited.

In a town near Richmond it was thought very doubtful if she could
obtain a meeting, as the feeling against the North was so strong. When
the Methodist minister was applied to, a young man present exclaimed,
"That Quaker lady must have a meeting; she is the mother of my college
classmate, Major Jones. She must have a meeting, and we will do our
best to get the people out." The meeting was a large one and blessed,
and the people expressed their thanks at the close.

After much loving service in the prisons and elsewhere, Sybil Jones
went once more to Washington, holding meetings and doing all she could
to "lift the skirts of darkness." She felt that she had another
message to bear to the White House, where now, at the head of affairs
of state, was the late President's successor, Andrew Johnson. She had
a most touching interview with the President's daughter, the wife of
Senator Patterson. They mingled their prayers and tears, and then
Sybil Jones was presented to the President. He was surrounded by
supplicants, mothers, advocates of right, and artful politicians.
While waiting for audience the President's little granddaughter
offered to her a beautiful bouquet of flowers, and, drawing her close,
Sybil Jones spoke to her of the infinitely more beautiful flowers of
heaven. The President courteously gave her permission to speak. She
told him her message, and told him that it was in the name of the
"King of kings." He thanked her seriously, and many were in tears. It
was a most impressive scene.

After this, Sybil Jones returned to Maine, but she was not permitted
long to enjoy the sweet associations in the home so dear to her. The
impression seemed to gather force daily that she must once more cross
the ocean. These words came to her often with great emphasis: "Get
thee out of thy own country and from among thy own kindred to a land
which I shall show thee." Once more she cast her burden upon the
meeting, and found, as ever, the sweet sympathy and unity with her
call to go forth that were ever accorded her. She was liberated for
the service that she felt was hers to perform, and her "peace flowed
like a river."

Before engaging in the work in Europe, Sybil Jones obtained a
certificate from the monthly meeting to visit the prisons and
penitentiaries in some of the Southern States. She visited most
institutions of that character in many of the large Southern cities,
bearing the news of life and salvation to the poor erring ones. Many
tracts and Bibles were distributed and much work was done in the
vineyard of the Lord. Once more she bore a message to President
Johnson. She went to the White House on a reception day for the
President's daughter, and passed in with the throng. On every side
were seen the glory and parade of this world that will pass away, but,
obtaining audience with the President and his daughter, she spoke to
them of the pleasures that are eternal. The Lord helped her to declare
the truth, and she went away trusting that it would not be "in vain in
the Lord." Her whole soul was rejoiced to see the great change that
had swept over the South since the shackles of slavery had been
removed. Those who had been slaves now stood up men. She felt that
there is indeed "a God who judgeth in the earth, and He only worketh
wonders."




CHAPTER XII.

_MISSION-WORK._

            "'Tis time
    New hopes should animate the world, new light
    Should dawn from new revealings to a race
    Weighed down so long."

    BROWNING.


There was comparatively little known among Friends about the land of
the Bible from personal observation before 1870, and some of the best
works on the history, the geography, the manners, and customs of
Palestine have been written since that date. The visits of Eli and
Sybil Jones to Syria, and the letters which they and their companions,
Alfred Lloyd Fox and Ellen Clare Peason (born Miller), wrote from
there have done much to bring that country to the careful notice of
Friends; and the interest felt in the missions at Brumanna and
Ramallah has induced many to study their situations and to become
better acquainted with that whole region, incontestably the most
important on the globe if we associate with the soil what has
transpired there for the benefit of the race. We call it the "Holy
Land," and the religious enthusiasts of the Middle Ages felt that it
was a profanation for infidels to hold the sepulchre of the Lord and
the cities where He taught; so that thousands rose from all Christian
lands to win back the captured territory, and blindly gave their
lives for what they thought a sacred cause. In those days the Crusades
opened the eyes of Europe and showed to the people the civilization
and wonders of this Eastern land, and they brought back accounts from
the cradle of early civilization which changed the thoughts and ideas
of the age. American missionaries began to work in Syria in 1823, not
to win the soil from the hands of infidels, but to gain the souls of
those living in blindness, ignorance, and sin; and their endeavors
have been greatly blessed, although these strongholds yield slowly to
the most vigorous assaults.

Until the fourth century after Christ feasts were held annually in
Syria to commemorate the death of Adonis--or Tammuz, as he was called
in Syria--and his birth was celebrated again in the spring. These
rites came from the story of Adonis being killed at the sources of the
river which bears his name. This stream, which comes down with a
swollen current in autumn, carries away much red iron ore; this gives
the water a reddish color, which was said to be caused by the blood of
Adonis, while in the spring Adonis was supposed to rise from the dead
in all his beauty, at which time all gave themselves up to
unrestrained joy. It was this mourning for Adonis of which Ezekiel
speaks: "He brought me to the door of the Lord's house, and, behold,
there sat women weeping for Tammuz" (or Adonis). All the heathen
temples were destroyed and the worship stopped by Constantine the
Great. At present there are in Syria about one million Mohammedans,
two hundred and fifty thousand Maronites, two hundred and thirty-five
thousand members of the Greek Church, eighty thousand Roman Catholics,
eighty thousand Druses, thirty thousand Jews, but only five thousand
Protestants; besides many other kinds of religions.

The Maronites are thought by some to have taken their name from
Maroon, an abbot who lived near the Orontes in the sixth century. He
was considered as a saint by these people, though by the pope he was
deemed a heretic. In the time of the Crusades the Maronites joined the
Christian army from the West, and so came in contact with the Roman
Church. They are divided into four orders--Jesuits, Franciscans,
Lazarists, and Capuchins--over whom one patriarch is the governor. The
order of the Jesuits, with the influence of the patriarch, has from
the first opposed the work of all missionaries, and a heap of stones
near the convent of Kanobin marks the spot where a missionary was
martyred in 1830 by the will of the Maronite patriarch.

The Druses are perhaps the most remarkable people of Syria, and they
are, too, the most mysterious. It was formerly thought that they were
the descendants of a band of the crusaders who were left behind and
finally forgot their land and religion, taking their name from the
count of Dreux. There is a more plausible theory which identifies them
with some of the tribes introduced into the Palestine by Esarhaddon,
the great Assyrian, in the seventh century, B. C. Their name seems to
have come from Ismael Darazi, and dates no farther back than the
eleventh century A. D.

Hakim, one of the caliphs, who reigned in 1019, and who seems from his
tyranny and fanaticism to have been a madman, maintained that he had
direct intercourse with the Deity, and that he was an incarnation of
the divine intelligence. The claim was made known in the mosque at
Cairo by Ismael Darazi, whose testimony was hostilely received by the
people and he himself compelled to flee; but he at last succeeded in
winning over the ignorant inhabitants of Mount Lebanon, whence the
origin of this religion. The Druses hold that there is only one God,
indefinable, incomprehensible, ineffable, and passionless--that he has
made himself known by ten successive incarnations, lastly by Hakim.
They believe in the transmigration of souls, and they say that
virtuous souls pass into Chinese Druses, but those of the wicked into
dogs or camels. These people have a high reputation for hospitality,
and especially toward the English or Americans. God, they say, is
great and liberal and all men are brothers, though in their bloody
massacres they forget this, as Christians sometimes do.

The last hundred years have witnessed fearful struggles between the
Maronites and Druses, and the rivers have run red--not from the
supposed blood of Adonis, but from that of human beings--and many
Christians have fallen victims.

Another sad fact is the low position which woman holds in Palestine.
It is only Christianity that can put her in her true place as man's
equal.

Those, then, who go to Syria to herald the gospel and plant the seeds
of progress in the hearts of these people have as much to contend with
as those who go among uncivilized heathen, or perhaps more. Here they
are opposed by uncompromising bigotry, by the despotic hand of a
mighty ruler, and they must find untold obstacles in a land where the
muezzin's voice is heard from a thousand Moslem minarets, with the
hate which has ever existed between the two religions, and has not
been lessened by the contests around Jerusalem for the possession of
the holy sepulchre. But missionaries are peacemakers, and it is well
that members of the Society of Friends have been led to do work
here--a Society which would proclaim the "truce of God to the whole
world for ever;" a Society which would give to woman the nobility for
which she was created. We may hope that the hills which witnessed the
chorus of angels singing, "Peace on earth, good-will to men," shall
look on a community in which this is fulfilled, and, though
Jerusalem's altar-fires have gone out, there may a brighter light
shine into the hearts of a people worshipping God in spirit and in
truth.

We can hardly realize that this important land, "the cradle of
revelation," is so small that it is only about the size of Wales.
"From Dan on the north to Beersheba on the south is a distance of only
one hundred and thirty-nine miles, and the paltry breadth of twenty
miles from the coast to the Jordan on the north increases slowly to
only forty between the shore of the Mediterranean at Gaza and the Dead
Sea on the south."

To this little country, made great and again humbled, raised up and
again degraded, to this people divided into so many religions, Eli and
Sybil Jones felt a call to bear the gospel first promulgated from its
hills and in its valleys.

They were liberated by China monthly meeting, Vassalboro' quarterly
meeting, and New England yearly meeting, and embarked from Boston on
the 10th of 4th month, 1867.

"The last meeting attended by them before leaving their home in Maine
was thronged by their townspeople, many of whom had known them through
life, and several ministers from other societies from the overflowing
of their hearts expressed their desire for the divine blessing upon
their labors as ambassadors for Christ. Between our two friends, and
upon the same bench, sat their two aged mothers, respectively in their
eighty-fourth and eighty-ninth years. The latter arose in the presence
of the large assembly, and, referring to the prospect that she should
not meet her dear children again in this life, expressed her
willingness to give them up for the sake of the Lord. They were
attended on board their steamer by a large delegation of Friends from
Lynn, Salem, New Bedford, and Providence. Here they mingled in
Christian sympathy and in a season of religious fellowship, giving
their fellow-passengers the opportunity of witnessing such brotherhood
in Christ as used in the olden time to induce the exclamation: 'See
how the Quakers love one another!'" Among those who came to bid them
adieu and attend their religious exercises were John A. Andrew,
governor of Massachusetts, and General Banks. It was especially
interesting, as marking a striking contrast to the treatment which the
missionary Quakers two hundred years before received at the hands of
the Boston officials.

John G. Whittier, who at one time had a desire to accompany them,
wrote the following beautiful verses for the occasion:

         "TO ELI AND SYBIL JONES.

    "As one who watches from the land
      The lifeboat go to seek and save,
    And, all too weak to lend a hand,
      Sends his faint cheer across the wave,--

    "So, powerless at my hearth to-day,
      Unmeet your holy work to share,
    I can but speed you on your way,
      Dear friends, with my unworthy prayer.

    "Go, angel-guided, duty-sent!
      Our thoughts go with you o'er the foam;
    Where'er you pitch your pilgrim tent
      Our hearts shall be and make it home.

    "And we will watch (if so He wills
      Who ordereth all things well) your ways
    Where Zion lifts her olive hills
      And Jordan ripples with His praise.

    "Oh! blest to teach where Jesus taught,
      And walk with Him Gennesaret's strand!
    But whereso'er His work is wrought,
      Dear hearts, shall be your Holy Land."

Letters from Eli Jones and his companions will be given farther on to
show the nature of their work, the places visited, and something of
the good accomplished. Many of these letters are exceedingly
interesting, and, being written on the spots which they describe, they
throw new light on the scenes of the Bible-land. For the present I
wish to follow out briefly the part these two Friends have taken in
what may be called distinctive mission-work.

After being engaged for about a month attending meetings in and about
London, mostly among the poor, and doing some work in Scotland, they
began their journey, stopping with the Friends in the south of France,
embarking from Marseilles for Greece, and thence going pretty directly
to Beirut in Syria. They had as companions and helpers that earnest
and sweet-spirited Christian, Alfred Lloyd Fox of Falmouth, England,
and Ellen Clare Miller of Edinburgh, for whom, as she is still living,
words of eulogy are happily not yet in place. They spent some months
holding meetings, visiting schools, and doing much quiet work up and
down nearly the whole length of Palestine. Sybil Jones being all the
time in feeble health, they finally returned to England to spend the
summer. Sybil went to Ireland, and Eli held meetings in different
parts of England. Meantime, Alfred Fox and Ellen Clare Miller, who had
become much interested in the work going on in Palestine, had raised a
considerable sum of money to assist the mission-schools and general
religious work in the Holy Land, and about seven hundred pounds were
collected, some of which was sent to those needing it. As the summer
went on, Eli and Sybil Jones each separately, began to feel that they
had still further work in the East to do, and the way opened for them
to return to the work which they had left unfinished. Ellen Clare
Miller again attended them, also Richard Allen and Captain Joseph Pim.
What money remained was put into their hands to be spent as they saw
fit to promote education and spread the gospel in Syria.

While in the neighborhood of Jerusalem they visited Ramallah. There
was a boys' school in this place, and here they were met by a young
woman who asked that she might be helped to teach a girls' school. Eli
Jones asked her if she could teach, to which she answered, yes. After
consideration it was decided to take some of the money which had been
entrusted to them to start this young woman--Miriam--in the work of
educating the girls of the neighborhood. On returning to England at
the end of their visit, and reporting what they had done at Ramallah,
it was at once accepted by the English Friends, and the little school
thus begun was adopted and liberally supported. Ramallah became the
seat of the mission and school of the London Friends, and was
carefully watched over, built up, and maintained until 1888, when it
was decided to be best for American Friends to take it in exchange for
their interest in the Brummana mission on Mount Lebanon. It will be
called the Eli and Sybil Jones Mission, and the New England Friends
are ready zealously to take up and carry on the good work which for
eighteen years has received the support of English Friends.

During this same visit, while at Beirut in the year 1869, they met
Theophilus Waldmeier, who was engaged in the British Syrian schools.
He became much interested in the strangers, and desired to learn more
of their religious principles. "Their addresses were so powerful and
edifying," he writes, "that our hearts were touched, and I began to
think that their religious principles must be of a superior nature. I
went to the hotel where they lodged and made their acquaintance, and
from that time I have believed that the Quaker principles are the
right basis for a true spiritual Church. When these dear Friends left
the country their blessed influence remained upon my heart, though
they had not the slightest idea of it, nor had I any hope of seeing
them again."

Two years later Theophilus Waldmeier met Stafford Allen, and
accompanied him, his son, and Joseph Price to Baalbek, so that they
became closely acquainted, and he was invited to come to Stafford
Allen's house in London, which he did in 1872, and here he made the
acquaintance of Hannah Stafford Allen, Robert and Christine Alsop, and
others, and he became more and more familiar with the spiritual views
of Friends, and later he joined himself to their Society.

He visited the different missions around Mount Lebanon, and he found
that there was none at Brummana. It was told him that the inhabitants
of Brummana were the greatest thieves and liars in the world. "They
are Maronites, Greeks, and Druses, and the evil report of them has
filled the country even unto Egypt. Every one is afraid of them. The
American missionaries wanted to establish a mission among them, but
they were expelled from the place in 1831, and the Bibles and
Testaments which they distributed among the people were publicly
burned." This showed that here was indeed the spot for a mission, but
it would take courage and manly work to establish it. But the order
seemed to come to Theophilus Waldmeier, "Go forward;" and on the 9th
of the 4th month, 1873, he gave in his resignation to the committee of
British Syrian schools, and it was not long before he was settled with
his family at Brummana. But, unsupported, he felt he could do little,
and he wrote an earnest letter to Hannah Allen for assistance; and
this letter was sent to Eli Jones. Hannah Allen sent pecuniary aid to
Theophilus Waldmeier for his family. Eli Jones received the letter a
little before New England yearly meeting opened, and took it with him
to that meeting, not knowing what it would be best to do. Charles F.
Coffin attended this yearly meeting, and he made an earnest plea that
New England Friends should identify themselves with some mission-work.
The subject was taken up and a committee appointed, the names of Eli
and Sybil Jones being among the number. Eli Jones at once urged that
something be done to help Theophilus Waldmeier, and fifty dollars was
raised to be sent to him. Eli Jones was requested to write and find
how the religious views of Theophilus agreed with those of Friends,
and the answer gave satisfaction to all. American Friends were now
ready to take hold of the work on Mount Lebanon, and were anxious to
join with English Friends in support of a mission there. Eli Jones
wrote to Theophilus Waldmeier: "I am glad to be able to say that our
Friends in New as well as in Old England seem much interested in thy
work on Mount Lebanon. I think that thyself and dear wife and your
helpers may be encouraged to give yourselves to the work of the Lord
there, with full trust that your temporal wants will be supplied."
After much correspondence it was arranged for English Friends to join
those of New England yearly meeting in furnishing funds for the
support of the new mission; committees, secretaries, and treasurers
were appointed. T. Waldmeier was encouraged to go on with what he had
begun, with the certainty that his wants would be supplied. He did
so, and the work prospered. He has had much to endure, but he has
persevered, and much of the success of Friends' work on Mount Lebanon
is due to his faithfulness and courage. English Friends have from the
first nobly done their part to support this post of service, and they
have shown an untiring interest in it. Eli Jones has felt almost a
father's love for this Mount Lebanon mission. He has worked for it,
begged for it, and prayed for it. His original fifty dollars,
collected from New England Friends, was the first contribution sent to
it, at least by Friends, and from that time on he has not ceased to
stretch out his hands and heart to help it. He would be the last to
claim any honor for the success of either of the missions in
Palestine; he is among those who have helped to plant and water, and
God himself has given a good increase.

In 1876, Eli Jones, Alfred Lloyd Fox, and Henry Newman again visited
the Holy Land, and especially the slope of Mount Lebanon. A meeting
was held there, and Eli Jones read an epistle from the foreign mission
committee appointed by New England yearly meeting, expressing the
belief that a meeting should be organized at Brummana. After
deliberation a meeting was organized in the usual manner, consisting
of six native Christians and the family of T. Waldmeier.

During this same visit they started a boys' training-home. The winter
was spent in getting the training-home ready to open and putting it on
a proper working basis. A house was rented from one of the emirs of
Mount Lebanon, in which the boys of the mountain began to be trained.
This house and the one occupied by T. Waldmeier were those in which
lived the two emirs who gave the order to burn the Bibles and
Testaments of the early American missionaries. The spot is still
marked near the training-home where these Bibles were burnt, and some
of the inhabitants still live there who helped execute the order; so
that the children of the men who put fire to the Bible are now being
taught on this same spot from this same book.

In the spring of 1880 an appeal was made for a girls' training-home at
Brummana, T. Waldmeier judging the cost of building and current
expenses would be about ninety-five pounds. Not long after Eli Jones
wrote: "At our New England yearly meeting thy appeal for a girls'
training-home was read, and elicited a ready and remarkable response.
Soon after the meeting we found that the subscription had reached
eleven hundred dollars. The women Friends of New York yearly meeting
also raised two hundred dollars, thus making thirteen hundred dollars
in the hands of our treasurer, George Howland, for the purpose of
erecting a home for girls on Mount Lebanon."

So much money was collected that during the winter Eli Jones in the
name of the committee authorized the work to begin, and on the 27th of
10th month, 1882, the new building was completed. Eli Jones, then in
his seventy-sixth year, again crossed the water to be present at the
dedication of it. Three hundred persons, among them princes and
princesses, were there to see and hear the ceremony. Eli Jones read
Prov. xxxi., and spoke for an hour and fifteen minutes on the subject
of female education. The fifteen girls who were to be educated sat in
a semicircle on chairs before Eli Jones, and stood up and sang a hymn
at the close of the meeting. Charles M. Jones of Winthrop, Maine, had
attended Eli, and they worked for three months to accomplish the
transference of the mission into the hands of three English and three
American trustees. The management of the work was considerably
remodelled during this winter. It is a difficult matter to obtain a
perfectly clear title to land in Palestine, and the Friends were
obliged to go through eight different courts before the affair was
thoroughly settled.

The Ramallah Friends' mission was visited, and much was done to
encourage the workers there. New England Friends at present are
earnest to accomplish much good at Ramallah, and there has been a
striking liberality manifested by them in this field. Eli Jones, now
in his eighty-second year, can never again visit in the body these two
spots which he fondly loves, but he rejoices in his last days that the
cause so near his heart is receiving so warm a support, and the
advance which has been made prophesies the day when the Syrian wife
shall have a woman's voice and a woman's power, and when the
marvellous blessing of Christ's immeasurable love shall be felt in the
hearts of those who now sit in darkness, though in the land where "the
great Light has shined."




CHAPTER XIII.

_LETTERS FROM SYRIA._


Eli and Sybil Jones were most cordially liberated by Friends for the
work in Europe, which was shown them as a field white unto harvest in
which they were called to labor. They set sail from Boston in the ship
"China," 4th mo. 10th, 1867. They attended Dublin and London yearly
meetings, and visited the meetings throughout England, and then
carried their labors into Scotland. Of the visit in this country Eli
Jones writes to the _Friends' Review_:

                                    LONDON, 9th mo. 6, 1867.

Having returned to this city again from what has been to us a very
pleasant and satisfactory tour throughout parts of Scotland, and
especially to those towns where members of our religious Society
reside, I take my pen to give a few jottings from my note-book. On the
12th of 8th mo. we left Newcastle-upon-Tyne for Glasgow in Scotland,
distant by rail one hundred and twenty-five miles. The day was
delightful, and as we passed on at the rate of thirty or more miles
per hour we saw much calculated to please and instruct. Crossed the
Tweed near its mouth, where the old town of Berwick enjoys a fine
outlook upon the German Ocean, and where a halt of a few minutes
reminded us that we had really reached the land of Scott and Burns,
of Jaffrey and the Barclays, and of others whose names are familiar to
the readers of Scottish history. Our course after leaving Berwick lay
through extensive fields of ripening corn--or, as we Americans would
say, of grain--interspersed with broad belts of potatoes and turnips,
the whole indicating careful culture and a higher type of agriculture
than I had previously noticed. As we approached Edinburgh there was
less land under the plough, and instead green pastures cropped by
numerous flocks of sheep, with an occasional sprinkling of other
stock. Passing through the last-named city, we noticed the monument
erected to the memory of Walter Scott. Its architectural beauty can
hardly fail to catch the eye of the traveller. Another hour, through a
valley of great fertility, brought us to Linlithgow, the birthplace of
Mary queen of Scots. The royal castle is still standing. At the close
of the day's travel we found ourselves at Glasgow, and, taking a
hurried lunch at the house of William Smeal, were seated in the
meeting of ministers and elders at the hour of seven, when visitors
and visited were comforted together.

_13th._ Were present at the two-months' meeting--a favored season. At
a joint meeting following that for worship the ministry of Eliza
Wigham was approved. It was instructive to witness the freedom of
expression, not only of the aged, but of young men and women, who
cheerfully lent their aid to help the Church redeem her "charge" in so
important a matter. Attended two meetings in Edinburgh; lodged at the
house of William and Jane Miller. The next day, in company with these
dear friends and others, went by rail to Aberdeen by way of Stirling,
Perth, Dunbar, and Stonehaven. This ancient city of the North, of
which Alexander Jaffrey was provost (or mayor), and in whose prisons
many of the early Friends were incarcerated for conscience' sake, is
in 57° 8' 57" north latitude, and lies upon the river Dee. It is built
of gray granite. The houses are from two to four stories high, and
present a clean and substantial appearance. A statue of Queen Victoria
standing near the centre of the town is much admired. It is of white
marble upon a pedestal of red granite highly polished. In the chapel
at King's College a structure of the fourteenth century is shown, a
pulpit--a relic from an ancient cathedral of the twelfth. Great labor
must have been performed by hands no longer active to produce in the
solid oak the carved figures and forms seen in this edifice of a
bygone age. The other college buildings are of modern date. The
general meeting of ministers and elders was held on the 17th. Godfrey
Woodhard, William Ball, Thomas Wells, and Sarah Tatham in the ministry
were present from England. The latter has been for some weeks our kind
companion and caretaker.

_10th, First day._ Two meetings for worship were held, both well
attended, the latter more numerously than could be accommodated in the
house, several remaining near the door; all quiet and attentive. Most
Friends present in the ministry took part in the vocal exercises, in
which Christ was exalted as the rightful Head of His Church and as the
world's only Saviour. The business of the general meeting is the same
in character as that of a quarterly meeting. It was held on the 19th
of the month, preceded by a meeting for worship. We may trust both
were seasons of encouragement to Friends in this land, so remotely
situated one from the other and accustomed to meet for worship in
comparatively small numbers. While in Aberdeen we visited Barbara
Wigham, now nearly ninety-three years of age, a valued minister who
seems quietly waiting the pleasure of her Lord to leave her post of
watching for a seat among the blessed. How delightful to look upon the
ripe corn in the ear ready to be garnered! She is the daughter-in-law
of John Wigham, who some years since travelled extensively in America,
going as far east as Nova Scotia.

Left Aberdeen the morning of the 21st for Stonehaven, sixteen miles
distant, where we had arranged for a meeting in the morning. This is a
neat little town, nearly two miles from Ury, the ancient home of the
Barclays, including the noted Apologist. The present "laird of Ury,"
John Baird, and his wife, Margaret Baird, kindly showed us about their
palace-home and its extensive gardens redolent with fruit and flower,
and in other ways continued to make our call a very pleasant one.
Among things of special interest was shown a stool of rather clumsy
make labelled "Library Stool of Robert Barclay the Apologist."
Tradition and facts point to this as the veritable seat of that
eminent Christian scholar while writing his unrefuted and as yet
unanswered book, _The Apology_. A lengthened walk through field and
pasture brought us to the "Sarcophagus" of the Barclay family, located
upon an eminence overlooking the estate and its surrounding country,
including Stonehaven and parts of the German Ocean. The building is of
stone, with recesses in the interior walls containing tablets
descriptive of members of the family, from Colonel David Barclay to
Robert the Younger, who died in 1854, there being five in a direct
line of the name of Robert. A larger tablet contains a synopsis of the
history and genealogy of the family, running back many years prior to
the time in which the name of Barclay finds a place in the history of
Friends. The estate is large. One of its owners during his life
cultivated two thousand acres and planted out one thousand five
hundred other acres. At the time of our visit its pastures were
enlivened by the presence of large herds of horned cattle and a flock
of eight hundred ewe sheep, four hundred lambs, a portion of this
year's increase having been disposed of previously. Numerous beeches
of startling dimensions grace the lawn, and near where stood the old
homestead an old yew tree, now in the strength of its power, reminds
one that it might have enjoyed, and probably did enjoy, youth
contemporaneously with the ancient "laird of Ury" and with his son the
Apologist. The present dwelling is one of modern date; its predecessor
and the "old Ury meeting-house" were removed to give it place.

Our meeting at Stonehaven was a relieving one. The family from Ury
attended, and we were glad of their company. Thence we went forward to
Glasgow by way of Dundee, accompanied by our kind friend, Robert
Smeal, the gifted editor of the _British Friend_. Held large meetings
at each of the above-named cities.

On the 24th, after a meeting at Kilmarnock, went that night to
Edinburgh. Next day and first of the week met Friends and others at
their place of worship. Here closed our religious labors in that
interesting country, and we came pretty directly to this place, taking
in meetings at Carlisle, Manchester, and Birmingham. Affectionately
thy friend,

                                                  ELI JONES.

Eli Jones, in a letter dated 9th mo. 26th, thus alludes to service
ahead: "We intend to leave London this evening for Paris, and after a
few days there and among Friends in the south of France, embark at
Marseilles for Greece; call at a few places in that classic land;
thence pretty directly to Beirut in Syria, where, if the Lord shall
make a way for us to labor in His service, we may spend some weeks in
visiting school-missionaries and such others as may be disposed to
hear the good news in the land of the Crucified One, and return by way
of Jaffa, Alexandria, Cairo, and the island of Malta. We have as
companions and helpers in the work our young friends Alfred Lloyd Fox
of Falmouth, England, and Ellen Clare Miller of Edinburgh. Much kind
interest has been manifested by Friends here in relation to this new
field of labor."

One of the companions of E. and S. Jones wrote the following account
of their labors in the south of France to the _Friends' Review_:

"Eli and Sybil Jones and party left London on the 16th for Paris,
_viâ_ Folkestone and Boulogne, having letters of introduction from the
secretaries of the Turkish Mission, Church Missionary, and Jewish
Church Mission societies, and to various persons in the East. We had
a smooth, pleasant passage of about two hours, S. J. reclining most of
the time, and E. J. and companions remaining on deck watching the
disappearing lights on the English coast and then those on the French
shore coming into view. We spent the night in Boulogne, going on the
next afternoon to Paris. The three following days we spent in Paris.
We visited the Exhibition and went to the stand of the Bible Society,
where we were greatly interested in the account of the work done
during the time of the Exhibition. They have distributed, thus far,
1,800,000 copies of the Scriptures or portions of the Scriptures.
Among others, eight hundred priests have received these, so that we
cannot but hope that a large amount of good has been effected. While
Eli and Sybil Jones were at the stand numbers of people came for the
little gratuitous French, German, and Italian Gospels, and seemed much
pleased to receive them. Our friends had the pleasure themselves of
giving some copies to soldiers and others. The gentlemen at the stand
were much interested in E. and S. J.'s mission to the East, and
supplied us with Arabic and Turkish portions for distribution there.
On First day we attended the Friends' meeting at the Congregational
chapel, 23 Rue Royale, at 9 A. M. About forty persons were present,
among others L. Mellor and her husband from Philadelphia, whom it was
pleasant for E. and S. Jones to meet. The meeting was a memorable and
impressive one, ministry and supplication flowing freely. Soon after
the Friends' meeting the usual Congregational meeting was held, at
which we remained, the pasteur inviting E. and S. Jones to come to
his afternoon meeting in the Avenue des Ternes, where they might have
an opportunity of addressing those present. We accordingly went, and
found a small but serious gathering of English and Americans; the song
of the angels on the night of our Saviour's birth was dwelt upon. Next
day E. and S. J., having been invited by the secretary of the
Evangelical Alliance to be present at the usual service in the Salle
Évangélique, we went thither at the appointed time, but were sorry to
find on arriving that, though free opportunity was offered for Eli
Jones to speak, the committee could not allow Sybil Jones to do so.
Under these circumstances Eli Jones declined to take any part in a
service which would so distinctly have compromised one of our
Society's leading views. On Third day we left Paris for Lyons. E. and
S. J. much enjoyed the country with its long lines of poplar trees
edging the streams and canals, and vineyards terracing the slopes of
Côte d'Or. We slept at Lyons, setting out the following morning for
another day's journey to Nismes. Nismes was reached between nine and
ten P. M., our Friends less tired than after the journey of the day
before, having much enjoyed the scenery. Jules Paradon, who for so
many years had been an interpreter for Friends and their kind helper
in the south of France, came early to the hotel on the following
morning to welcome the Friends back to Nismes. Lydia Majolier and
other Friends also called, and an arrangement was made for a meeting
to be held at the Free Church the same evening, the pasteur kindly
giving up his usual service to E. and S. Jones. A good meeting was
held, about one hundred being present. Jules Paradon interpreted the
free gospel message and the prayer for France, her rulers, her
pasteurs, and her people. Much joy was expressed at seeing E. and S.
J. again. Much fruit of their labor here fourteen years ago is
evident. There seems much good stirring among the young people who are
connected with Friends. Some of those who were at school when E. and
S. J. were last here bear marks of their influence. On the 3d we drove
to Congènies, about twelve miles from Nismes, through the rich
vineyards and oliveyards of the South. There are not many Friends at
Nismes, but the little meeting-house was well filled. In the evening a
meeting was held, and about ninety present, half of them men. It was
an interesting sight to see the men in their working dress and the
women--many of whom had been working hard all day--listening so
attentively and seriously to the loving and encouraging words spoken
to them. Much feeling was shown as they spoke to the Friends after
meeting. E. and S. Jones and their party were kindly lodged at the
house of George and Lydia Majolier, and the following day were driven
to Fontanés to see Friends in that neighborhood. We were hospitably
entertained at the house of Daniel Brun, a minister of our Society. A
meeting was held in the afternoon, about forty present; L. Majolier
interpreted. E. and S. J. addressed words of warning and encouragement
to all. Daniel Brun prayed for a blessing upon the seed sown. On First
day the meeting convened at 10.30 A. M. at Congènies, many Friends
coming from other places, so that the little meeting-house was again
filled, J. Paradon having come over to interpret. Sybil Jones dwelt
upon the nature of true worship. Eli Jones dwelt earnestly upon
woman's part in regenerating and elevating the world, reminding us of
what a prominent part she played in the fall, and, on the other hand,
both in the Old Testament history, and still more in the New, how many
noble women are written about. These were held up as not unattainable
examples. A large and very interesting meeting was held at 4 P. M. at
Nismes in one of the Protestant places of worship. On Second day E.
and S. J. visited two girls' schools for the poorer classes, at both
of which they spoke to the children, encouraging them to pray morning
and evening for help for the day and forgiveness for what they had
done amiss.

"On Third day we were at St. Gilles, where we were very kindly
entertained at Anna Vally's, where a meeting was held in the afternoon
for the few Friends in the place, and in the evening a good meeting
was held in the temple. The following day a large meeting was held at
Calvisson, six hundred being there, and Pasteur Abausit himself
interpreting. On Fifth day a farewell meeting was held with the
Friends, thirty or forty in number, at which much tenderness of
feeling was shown while S. J. urged and encouraged them to fight for
the faith once delivered to the saints. She dwelt earnestly on the
need of their forgiving those who had injured them, as they hoped to
be forgiven. Many tearful farewells were said and earnest desires
expressed for E. and S. J.'s welfare, and for a blessing on the labors
of their hands. On Sixth day we left Nismes at noon, reaching
Marseilles about 5 P. M., whence we hope to sail this afternoon for
Athens, thence to Beirut, where we look to be about the end of the
month."

       *       *       *       *       *

We give below a letter from Ellen Clare Miller, written on board the
steamer "Godavery" to the _Friends' Review_:

                                  SMYRNA, 10th mo. 25, 1867.

It falls to my lot to give some account of the very interesting visit
to Athens of our dear friends Eli and Sybil Jones.... It was a time
never to be forgotten. Our account was written from Marseilles, from
which port we embarked on Seventh day, 10th mo. 12th, reaching the
Piræus on Fifth day morning. We had a safe and pleasant voyage,
receiving much kindness from the captain, who seemed a superior man.
There was not opportunity for much outward service on board, but
earnest desires were felt and loving prayers raised that our tarriance
there might be for good to those who sailed with us....

On the 16th the fine ramparts of the rocky, sterile hills of Southern
Greece came into view, and all that day we coasted along that most
interesting country, with its mountains rising up from the very edge
of the sea, here and there a poor little village with its scanty olive
trees set in the hollows of the hills, or a solitary house for the
shepherd or goatherd. It was past midnight when we sailed into the
Piræus, very calm, with beautiful starlight and a very soft air; and
so we landed in Greece.

We did not know quite what we should do, landing at midnight in a
strange country and hearing only a strange tongue, but we were
wonderfully provided for in this respect. A Greek gentleman, who was
our fellow-passenger returning to Athens, very kindly did for us all
that could be done, getting our baggage through the custom-house
without detention--which at that late hour was a great relief--and
taking us to a comfortable hotel. It is difficult to convey the great
interest of our visit to Athens, which should, I think, be confirming
to all who go in simple faith where they feel themselves required to
go, believing that the way and the work will be opened up before them.
Such has been everywhere the openness to receive our dear friends that
surely He who put it into their hearts to visit this place, and who
when "He putteth forth His own sheep goeth before them," prepared the
hearts of the people in a wonderful manner to receive them, and opened
the way for their mission among all. It was very interesting next
morning to find ourselves opposite the Acropolis with its ancient
ruined temples and fortifications, and the less conspicuous but still
more interesting little eminence beside it, Mars Hill, from whose
rocks, where the council of the Areopagus sat, Paul spoke.

On Fifth day, the 17th, Eli Jones and Alfred Lloyd Fox delivered
letters of introduction to J. H. Hill, chaplain of the English
embassy, who for more than thirty years, with his wife, has been
teaching the Greek children. There is a great work going on in Athens
in reference to the poor Cretans who have fled from their own islands
and taken refuge in Greece. Thousands have come to Athens, where they
have been provided with food and clothing, and schools have been
opened for the education of their children. We visited five of
these--some more than once--where E. and S. Jones had an opportunity
of speaking to the children, and often to the poor Cretan women. Some
were widows; others had lost their children, others whose husbands and
children are still engaged in the war. All had lost their homes and
their whole possessions. It was a very affecting sight to see these
poor sorrowing creatures thronging to speak to the friends, thanking
them for their words of loving sympathy and comfort, and for the help
and sympathy sent them from America. At all the schools the message of
our dear friends was to point both children and parents to Jesus as
the one who is able under all circumstances to give peace and
happiness to the soul. The message, which to many was a new one,
seemed to go home to their hearts, and seed was sown with fervent
prayer which we must believe will be blessed to these poor creatures
and to Greece by Him who giveth the increase. Demetrius Z.
Sackellarios, editor of _The Star in the East_ and treasurer of the
American and Greek fund for the support of the Cretan schools, very
kindly and efficiently interpreted on several occasions. He is a Greek
by birth, but spent several years in America, and his wife, A.
Josephine Sackellarios, is an American lady. There are indeed several
Americans in Athens, with whom we had some very delightful
intercourse.

We spent First day evening with Dr. Hill and his family, and (through
the medium of Edward Masson, a Scotchman, and formerly one of the
judges of the supreme court of Areopagus) E. and S. Jones had an
opportunity of addressing a school at Dr. Hill's house for between
twenty and thirty Greek girls of the upper classes. Several were
introduced to them from Macedonia, Asia Minor, and many parts of
Greece and the islands, besides Athens. An impression seemed to be
made that evening which we trust will not soon be forgotten. After
visiting another of the schools on First day, where we saw five
hundred children taught on the national-school system, and some Cretan
women spinning and weaving their native silk, we went to the prison,
where Sybil Jones had obtained permission to speak to the prisoners.
Leave was granted for all the prisoners, about one hundred and fifty
in number, to come into the courtyard, in the centre of which was a
large plane tree, under the shadow of which all stood, the poor men
forming a large semicircle around S. Jones and D. Sackellarios, her
interpreter, and the others. It was a striking scene and a time of
great interest. The men were exceedingly attentive, and many were
moved while S. J. spoke to them for nearly an hour. She sympathized
with them in their present condition. She related some narratives of
prisoners who, having found their Saviour in prison, had been filled
with joy, and she prayed for them that they too might be brought to
Him. The governor of the prison seemed very grateful--said he hoped
the words spoken would be blest to the souls of the poor prisoners;
and many said it was a day never to be forgotten. It was found that
the prisoners had no Bibles, but an arrangement was made that each
should be supplied with at least a Gospel. We spent the evening very
pleasantly at the house of Dr. Kalopothakes, where we met most of the
missionaries, to whom, after the First of Romans had been read, E. and
S. J. addressed many words of encouragement, as they did on a similar
occasion on Third day morning, when many came to the hotel to take
leave, alluding to the refreshment it had been in coming to a strange
land to meet with those to whom, as servants of the same blessed
Master, they could feel united in one common love and faith, partaking
together of the one true communion and speaking together the language
of Canaan. All present were deeply affected, and a strong impression
was made there as on all other occasions. Some said that the visit of
these dear Friends to Athens was just what they had long desired and
prayed for--that what they had brought was as a message from the
Saviour to encourage them in their work; and D. Sackellarios said that
the day of his interpreting for them was the happiest of his life. The
same morning E. and S. Jones visited the theological college for the
education of young Greek priests. It is under the superintendence of a
young Greek, who seems a serious man. He has one or two Friends'
books, and is desirous to know something of our Society. S. J.
addressed a few words both to him and to the students, encouraging
them to give their hearts to the Saviour and to attend to the teaching
of the Holy Spirit in their hearts.

E. and S. J. also received a visit from the Cretan bishop of Kissaruss
to thank them for their visits to the schools and their interest in
the Cretan children, and through them to express gratitude to the
American people for their help and sympathy. He also asked for the
prayers of Americans that Crete might be made free.

We sailed from the Piræus 10th mo. 22d, landing at Syra the following
morning, where E. and S. J. visited the school for Greek children
under the care of F. A. Hildner, a Basle missionary, who has been for
thirty-seven years engaged in work on this island. Here, as before,
the gospel message was spoken to the children and a cheering visit
paid to the missionary. We re-embarked on Fifth day, and after running
for some time pretty near the coast we sailed into the beautiful bay
on which Smyrna stands. The city looks bright and Eastern with its
light-painted, square, flat-roofed houses, among which towers and
minarets rise. Behind the city rises a steep bare hill crowned with a
mosque and the ruins of an old castle. The mountains rise all round
the bay, greener than any we had seen since leaving the south of
France, and with olive trees and vineyards round their base.

To-day, the 25th, we went on shore, and were driven up and down the
narrow, roughly-paved streets of Smyrna, in which we saw many sights
reminding us we were in Asia--the trains of laden camels, the veiled
Turkish women, the fine large cypress trees shading the graveyards
with their painted inscriptions in foreign characters. We visited the
deaconesses' home, where fourteen of the sisterhood educate between
two hundred and three hundred children, many of the upper class. The
establishment is in beautiful order, and a bright and Christian spirit
appeared to reign in it. We hope to-morrow to continue the voyage to
Beirut. Our dear friends are pretty well, though needing rest. Thine
sincerely,

                                         ELLEN CLARE MILLER.

Ellen Clare Miller writes again in 11th mo. to the _Friends' Review_:

                                              BEIRUT, Syria.

The account of the journey of our dear friends E. and S. Jones was
brought down to the time of our leaving Smyrna. Having now reached
Beirut in safety, they wish thee and their friends in America to know
as soon as may be of their welfare, and of the pleasant and very
interesting voyage which we were favored to make safely and
comfortably. Since our arrival here, on Sixth day, the weather has
been so broken and stormy that we do indeed feel that there is great
cause for thankfulness to Him who holds the winds and waters under His
control.

We sailed from Smyrna about noon on the 26th, gradually losing sight
of the beautiful mountains which rise up on the south-west side of the
bay with their fine coloring of gray, pink, green, and purple, which
gives such a charm to the hills about this coast. We passed Chios and
Samos--Patmos with its great interest as the isle to which the beloved
disciple was banished by the emperor Domitian, and where the wonderful
visions were revealed to him. The following day, First day, the 27th,
we reached Rhodes, and, the steamer stopping for a few hours, we went
on shore, going up the steep street where on either hand stand the
half-ruined, strongly-built castles and houses once occupied by the
Knights of St. John. Over each doorway may still very plainly be seen
the various coats-of-arms of the members of the order, the grand
master having a larger house and more elaborate escutcheon. We passed
a mosque at the time when the congregation were coming out, and saw
each man resume his shoes at the door; there were no women. We were
allowed to look inside, but not to enter more than a step or two. It
was a plain, whitewashed building, with matting, but no seats; texts
from the Koran painted here and there upon the walls, and a kind of
pulpit from which the Koran is read. There are many Jews and
Mohammedans at Rhodes. It was sorrowful to think how many there were
who were professing to worship God, but in so mistaken a manner. E.
Jones and A. Fox distributed a great many portions of Scripture and
tracts in Arabic, Turkish, and Hebrew, as they did all along the coast
at our various stopping-places, so sowing much good seed, some of
which at least may, we hope, take root and bear fruit.

The whole of the following day was spent in coasting along that part
of Anatolia formerly called Lycia, Pamphylia, and Cilicia, keeping
very near the shore. It was a great privilege to pass near scenes of
such interest as those regions through which Paul and his companions
passed, and to see the very places on which their eyes must have
rested. Cyprus was visible on the right, but too distant from us to
obtain much idea of its appearance. Early in the morning of the 29th
we found ourselves in the harbor of Mersina, the port of Tarsus, about
ten miles from that city, of which Paul was a citizen. This latter
place itself we could not see, but we were shown the direction in
which it lay among the mountains, and the point where the Cydnus flows
into the sea with its cold waters fresh from Taurus, whose snowy tops
we plainly saw. The ship remained here till the afternoon, shipping
wheat, and we were much interested in seeing a train of one hundred
and fifty camels winding down from the direction of Taurus and moving
slowly along the shore to discharge their freight at the warehouses
upon the quay. We then turned our faces southward, passing not far
from Antioch, which, however, cannot be seen from the sea. We stopped
a few hours at Latakia, near which rises the cone-shaped Mount
Cassius. Soon after passing this we had our first view of one of the
spurs of Mount Lebanon, crowned with snow. This grand and extensive
range became more and more conspicuous until we reached Tripoli, which
lies beautifully at its feet in a fine wide bay. We sailed very near
the island of Aradus, the ancient Arvad, opposite to which lies "the
entering in of Hamath" so often mentioned in the Bible, the boundary
of the Land of Promise, though never of that really possessed by the
Israelites. The weather was very fine, but extremely hot, all the time
we were on the water.

The first day we were in Beirut the sirocco was blowing a hot,
enervating wind. Beirut looks beautiful, either from the sea or land.
It is built along the shore at the foot of Mount Lebanon. We find
several American and English missionaries, many of whose schools we
have visited and have been much interested in them; also attended some
religious meetings. As it is the rainy season, the Friends are not
able to get on quite so fast with their work as might otherwise be
the case; but they have been warmly received, and their visit seems to
be a very opportune one. Our party are all in usual health. The dear
Friends think their health is improved, decidedly so, since they left
America. Thine sincerely,

                                         ELLEN CLARE MILLER.

Another letter from Ellen Clare Miller, from Mount Lebanon in 11th
mo., 1867, to the editor of the _Friends' Review_, says:

"The last account forwarded to thee of our dear friends E. and S.
Jones was brought down to the 12th of this month. The great storms
which had prevailed up to that time, severer for the season than had
been known for many years, passed away on that day. A remarkably fine
rainbow, double and sixty degrees in height, one foot resting on the
sea and the other on the base of Lebanon, appeared that evening just
before sunset, giving very welcome promise of the return of fine
weather. This was very cheering, as the heavy rains had for the time
suspended the work of visiting schools, except that of E. B. Thompson,
which adjoins M. Mott's house. We are not able yet to give a very
clear statistical account of the many schools in Beirut and Lebanon
for the education of boys and girls, but there is, indeed, a great
work going on through their agency--a work of very widely extended
influence. E. B. Thompson has fourteen schools under her influence,
some in Beirut, some in the mountains. E. Saleeby, a Syrian, who has
spent some time in Scotland and England, and whose efforts are
principally supported by subscriptions from the former country, has
many more under his care. The American missionaries have stations at
Beirut and in several towns in the mountains, and we are at present at
a boarding-school for training Syrian girls for teachers, conducted by
two young ladies from England, sent out by the Society for Promoting
Female Education in the East. They have at present only eighteen
girls, on account of their limited means; the school will accommodate
thirty, and the education given and the Christian influence extended,
here as at other schools which we have seen, are very telling, and are
raising the women to a very different position from that which they
formerly occupied even among the nominal Christians in the country.
The prejudice against their education was very great among all sects,
and still exists, from the Mohammedans, who believe that woman has no
soul, among the Druses, Maronites, and Catholics, and the somewhat
more enlightened Protestants, who are now, through these schools,
awaking to the advantage of having their daughters educated.

"The people everywhere seem very intelligent, and there seems much
openness to receive missionaries from the Society of Friends, whose
spiritual teaching is much needed in these parts; and we hope the feet
of some may be directed to this Bible land, where the fields are
already white unto harvest and the laborers few, and that Friends may
see their way to lend funds to carry on this great work of Christian
education among the females of the East. There is an innate nobility
in them, and a gentleness and warmth of feeling in the women, which,
when so developed, produce a fine character. Those who cannot speak
English look at us with eyes full of love and interest, and by their
expressive gestures convey more than many of our words would do. We
became much interested in the girls of E. B. Thompson's principal
school, which we frequently visited, Eli Jones taking the Scripture
class several times. He found their knowledge of the Bible and their
understanding of its truths equal, if not superior, to what we should
find in our own schools in America and England. Besides this school,
E. and S. J. visited the infant school in connection with it, also
three smaller branch schools under E. B. Thompson's direction, and a
boys' school conducted by two very superior young men, native
teachers, but also under her superintendence. They also went to the
Prussian Deaconesses' Institution, where the children receive a good
education under Christian influences; then to the school for girls
under the care of Dr. Bliss, the American missionary: of this latter a
native Syrian and his wife have the immediate superintendence,
residing in the house with the boarders. The children everywhere are
well instructed in the Bible, and commit a great deal to memory both
from the Arabic and English Scriptures. In all the schools the Friends
delivered their message, exhorting all to use diligence to advance in
their education, that through the instrumentality of her young men and
young women Syria may rise among nations, and encouraging them to seek
earnestly and prayerfully after a knowledge of Him without knowing
whom, with all their learning and knowledge, they cannot be truly
great--often kneeling in prayer with the teachers and scholars before
leaving the school. They attended also a meeting for the Home Mission
Society, where they addressed, through the medium of M. Bosistani, its
principal, the college for the education of Syrian young men, as well
as the American and E. B. Thompson's school, who were all present.

"On Sixth day morning we started for Sook-el-Gharb, a little village
twelve miles from Beirut on the side of Lebanon, two thousand feet
above the sea, where we intended to remain an hour or two visiting the
schools there, and then to continue our journey a little farther to a
village which we might make our headquarters while visiting the
schools in that neighborhood, it being considered that the
mountain-roads would have sufficiently recovered from the effects of
the storm to be passable. The wind and the rain had, however, been so
much more violent than is usual at this season that the road was much
worse than had been expected, the path being in some places washed
away by the torrents, which, wearing themselves a rough channel down
what had been the road, had thrown up a wall of large loose stones on
each side, making the journey in some parts dangerous, and so
fatiguing that Sybil Jones was very much exhausted on arriving at
Sook, and unable to proceed farther without a rest of two or three
days. As much care as possible had been used in getting her up the
mountain, riding being the only means of travelling on these steep,
rough mountain-roads, with their ascents and descents more precipitous
than can be well imagined without being seen; but the shaking and
exertion were quite too much for her back, unused to such exercise,
and she was confined to bed, suffering much from pain and weakness,
until Third day, the 19th, when she was carried in a chair to this
place, twenty minutes' ride distant from Sook, by a comparatively
level path. The exertion of this so tired her that with great
reluctance she had to decide that she must give up the prospect of
going farther into the mountains. Eli Jones and A. L. Fox are
accordingly visiting the various mountain-schools, while she is
remaining at the school in Shumlan. It is a great disappointment and a
trial of faith to both the dear Friends that it has thus been ordered
so differently from what had been planned; but we cannot but believe
that it will be overruled for the best. The ride from Beirut to
Sook-el-Gharb is a very interesting one. We halted for some time at a
little rude khan at the side of a little stream of clear cold water,
where we rested a while under the shade of a fine evergreen oak, and
had some refreshments, being offered cakes of the Arab bread, which is
very thin and flat and baked of coarse flour, producing the effect of
a small sheet of chamois leather; though rather tough, it is sweet and
quite edible, and in constant use in this part of the country. They
tear off a piece, roll it up, and dip it into their food, instead of
using knives and forks; and we were much interested in hearing that it
was still the practice in doing honor to another at table to present
him with such a piece dipped in the choicest part of the mess,
reminding us of our Saviour's gift to Judas. Our view from this
village is very fine. We look down on the Mediterranean, ten miles or
more distant, but looking in this deceptive atmosphere not more than
three or four miles off. Between us and it intervene the terraced
sides of Lebanon, laid out in mulberry-gardens or newly sown with
wheat. Our stay at Sook, though unintentional, seemed to be in right
ordering, for service opened up there. The mistress of the house where
we were, E. Saleeby's wife, was dangerously ill, and has since died,
and her husband felt the dear Friends' visit one of great comfort and
entertained us with much kindness. E. Jones and A. Fox visited the
boys' and girls' school there, as well as at Abeih and Bhamdûn, some
hours' ride from Sook, E. J. examining the children in Scripture and
in other branches, speaking to and praying with them, and distributing
English and Arabic books. He also held meetings at Sook and Shumlan in
the school-house, attended by the schools and several of the
villagers, where the words earnestly spoken were attentively and
gladly received. We have heard twice from E. J. and A. L. F. since
they left us--good accounts. We were hoping to have seen them back
last evening, but they did not appear. We suppose that they must have
gone farther than was at first intended."

       *       *       *       *       *

The following is a letter from Eli Jones, written to the _Friends'
Review_ a few days later than the above letter from E. C. Miller:


                      SYRIA AND PALESTINE.

                                  SHUMLAN, 12th, 21st, 1867.

My dear Sybil feeling unable to go farther over these almost trackless
mountains without time for more rest, it seemed best for her and E.
C. Miller to remain at the boarding-school for girls at this place
under the care of two English ladies, Lucy Hicks and Mary M. Jacombs,
while A. L. Fox and I should proceed in the work. Accordingly, on the
22d of last month we left at eight o'clock in the morning on
horseback, attended by an efficient dragoman named Georgius, an
interpreter, Ibrahim, and Abdallah and Hassan, muleteers. After a ride
of two hours we reached Abeih, and were kindly cared for at the house
of Simon Calhoun and wife, American missionaries. He has been many
years in this country, and is, we learn, much esteemed by all classes.
Our first call was at the school of the Druses. The provost of the
school and the teacher of English met us at the gate and gave us a
cordial welcome; then led us to an apartment where sweetmeats and
coffee in tiny cups, according to the custom of the country, were
served. In answer to our question whether the Holy Scriptures were
read in the school, the teacher of English assured us that they were
read by his class. He is a student from the American school, and will
do what he can, I doubt not, in his delicate position to inculcate
Christian sentiment among this peculiar people.

In the afternoon we visited the boys' and also the girls' school,
under the care of the American mission, and were pleased with the
advance they have made in their education: we spoke to the children in
each school, William Bird interpreting, as he did in the evening, when
we met the young men at the Abeih seminary for the education of native
teachers. This institution has been in successful operation for the
last twenty-five years. Each student is expected to devote from one to
two hours each day to the study of the Holy Scriptures. These students
may now be met in almost all parts of Syria and in Mesopotamia and
Egypt.

_Seventh day, 23d._ Rode to Deir-el-Kamr; found lodgings at the
school-house, where E. B. Thompson has a small school. After dinner
took an hour's ride to Beteddin; called at the palace of Douad Pasha,
governor of the pashalic of the Lebanon. The governor was not at home;
we were met by some of his subordinate officers, with whom we had
interesting discourse.

_First day, 24th._ At an early hour we mounted our trusty steeds, and
reached Mukhtârah about ten A. M. Riding up to the palace of the great
Druse chief, Said Beg Jumplatt, we found the two young princes about
to set out on a ride to pass the day with friends in a neighboring
town, accompanied by N. Gharzuzee, the tutor of the younger prince,
and other officials. They offered us the hospitalities of the house as
long as we were disposed, which we accepted, and were soon informed
that the princes had given up their anticipated pleasure, saying they
preferred to spend the time with us. The elder prince is nearly
eighteen years of age, and married; the younger is about thirteen
years old, bright and intelligent, and really "the hope of my house."
His tutor, N. Gharzuzee, who is a native of Syria, has spent several
months in England; he speaks our language well and appears to be an
earnest Christian. As Christians we could not fail to feel greatly
interested in seeing such a man in so important a position, where he
is teaching this young man, destined, so far as we can see, to fill
the highest place of influence among this heterodox people--not only
sciences and languages, but the pure and unsophisticated doctrines of
the Bible. At one P. M. we met the children of the American mission
and of E. M. Thompson's schools, with several of the parents. After
listening to a very satisfactory examination of the children in the
Scriptures, I addressed them, N. Gharzuzee interpreting in an able
manner. The meeting was one to which I recur with sincere
satisfaction.

_25th._ Had our morning reading in Arabic, after which prayer was
offered in English, in which strong desires were expressed in the name
of Jesus, on behalf of the young princes, for the various members of
the household and for Syria. We left after many a cordial shake of the
hand and with many a "God bless you!" and "May you return to your own
country in peace!" Near one o'clock P. M. we saw in the distance the
snow-clad top of Hermon, which we seemed approaching. What thoughts
filled our minds--thoughts too big for utterance--as we stood upon
"the heights of that goodly mountain Lebanon," and saw the noble cone
of Hermon rising majestically toward the meridian sun, while southward
near its base lay the division of Naphtali, a portion of the "land of
possession," where we hoped to arrive on the following day! "The north
and the south, Thou hast created them; Tabor and Hermon shall rejoice
in Thy name."

Passed near a peasant at work with a curious plough drawn by a pair of
tiny bullocks. We each took a turn in guiding the plough, and felt a
pleasure for the time in occupying a place so often honored by
prophets and good men of old in this historic land. About the time of
the going down of the sun we reached Jezzin. Weary from the long
journey, I lay for a time upon a rug near the fountain while our
dragoman went to look for lodgings. During that brief time many a
maiden came forth with her pitcher to draw water. What strong evidence
this that we are nearing the Bible land! Lodgings were soon announced.
On reaching the room intended for our reception we found several
members of the family busily engaged in covering the floor with
matting, and near the seat of honor a fine carpet was spread.
Presently, finding I was weary, a thin mattress--or perhaps, as would
be better understood in our country, a thick comfortable--was added as
a bed. Here, stretching my weary limbs, I sought needed rest. By the
time, however, that we were fairly domiciled a large circle of men
came in and engaged in their favorite occupation, smoking. Though the
fumes of the pipe have for us no attraction, but rather the contrary,
still, finding our neighbors inclined to be social, we strove to make
the conversation profitable and if possible edifying. In the course of
the evening our kind hostess inquired if we would like water for our
feet? On our replying in the affirmative, "a lordly dish" well filled
was brought, and we were told all things were ready. Think what must
have been our surprise on being told that the young woman standing
near had volunteered to wash the strangers' feet! Fearing that our
refusal might be misunderstood, we placed them at the disposal of the
"little Syrian maid." With what thrilling interest ought we hereafter
to read the account of what transpired when He whose blood cleanses
from all sin "girded Himself and washed His disciples' feet," saying
to them, "If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet, ye
also ought to wash one another's feet; for I have given you an example
that ye should do as I have done unto you!"

The morning of the 26th the priest of the place came in, with whom we
had some pleasant intercourse. After breaking our fast we told the
family that it was our practice, before proceeding on the journey of
the day, to read a portion of Scripture and endeavor to lift up our
hearts to God in prayer, and we gave them an invitation to be present.
They all remained with us, as did the priest. We need not inquire to
what society these people belonged; suffice it to say, they
entertained strangers, they washed our feet, they fed the hungry, they
bade us go in peace, and refused our money as a recompense. After a
ride of two hours we halted at Cafer Huney, a little village on our
route, to have our horses' feet examined by a blacksmith and shoes set
if needful. While waiting we went to the fountain, where several
persons collected. After a time spent in pleasant conversation we
spoke to them of the heavenly country and of salvation by Jesus
Christ. We left with them copies of our Lord's miracles in Arabic,
which they received gladly. One of these rustic villagers, a lame man,
offered me his cane as a walking-stick with such hearty good-will,
saying he had others at home, that I took it and found it very useful
in making the steep descent of Lebanon in the afternoon. Near sunset
we reached the foot of the Lebanon range, and then crossed the Litany
(named on many maps Leontes) on one of the few bridges to be found in
this country. An hour and a half more brought us to the little town of
Abbel, toward which we had looked as an Arab village where it might be
difficult to find secure and comfortable lodging for the night. Ere we
entered all was shrouded in darkness, for the night had set in, but,
as it proved, a glad surprise awaited us. In reply to our first
inquiry for lodgings we were told that "the American church would be
the best place for us to stop at." A little farther on we were
accosted by one with whitened locks, who, taking our hands, shook them
with both of his with brotherly cordiality, and then with a light led
the way to the comfortable house erected within the past year as a
place for worship and a school-house by that devoted band of men whose
praise is in all the churches in this land--the American missionaries.
By the time we had entered several of the brethren had arrived. The
house is without seats. Mats were quickly arranged for us; then
followed the arrangements for supper. A _canoon_ filled with charcoal
with which to heat the water for tea first arrived; then one brought
bread, another eggs, a third sugar, and another melons; and _such
melons_! worthy the land that produced them. All things being ready,
the travellers sit upon the floor about the inviting meal, and while
they are busily engaged in satisfying the calls of hunger the company
increases; and here our responsibilities widen, for as we have been
privileged to partake of their good things for the sustenance of the
body, we are in duty bound, as far as may be our power, to meet their
spiritual and intellectual wants. I trust this evening, our first in
Palestine, was spent to the mutual benefit of all concerned. On the
morning of the 27th the school-children and several of the parents
came in, to whom we spoke words of encouragement in the pursuit of
useful knowledge, and especially that which "maketh wise unto
salvation." An hour more brought us to Krhyam, where we met another
school. We spoke to them of Him who is the only "Hope of Israel."
Again in the saddle, we rode away across the extensive and fertile
valley of Marjaiyum.

Just before reaching D'Mimas we met William Eddy of New York State, a
minister in connection with the American mission. On learning our
intentions, he kindly proposed to return to D'Mimas, that he might be
with us during our stay; his presence and kind care contributed
largely to our comfort. Here we visited another school and met several
of the brethren socially. The subject of education, and especially the
education of women, was freely discussed. We endeavored to show them
that no people can be happy or prosperous while woman holds a degraded
position among them, and that it is in vain to look for great men
where good and virtuous mothers are not to be found. As we press
onward what a view opens before us! One short hour farther we stand
upon a rocky knoll near the ancient town of Abel, where Joab claimed
Sheba the son of Bichri as a condition of peace. Looking eastward,
toward our right are the hills of the ancient Bashan, thickly dotted
with oaks, those emblems of strength; toward the left Hermon lifts
his head to heaven in solemn and solitary majesty. Not far are the
sites where stood Laish, Dan, and Cæsarea Philippi of the Scriptures,
which we hope to visit before nightfall, and all around on either hand
we have spread out before us one of the great battlefields of the
Bible. We spent a short time in the town distributing a few Arabic
books, and met with, as far as we could learn, the only
school-teacher, who told us he had under his instruction fourteen
boys. We tried to give him encouragement in the work, and gave him a
copy of the Psalms.

Soon after mid-day we reached Tell-el-Kady, "the hill of the judge,"
the Dan of Scripture. Two things are here worthy of special notice:
the fountain of the Jordan and the site of the ancient city of Dan.
The Tell is cup-shaped, and bears evidence of being an extinct crater.
On an island of rocks in size little more than sufficient to
accommodate our party, and beneath the wide-spreading branches of an
ancient oak, we took our humble mid-day meal. We had scarcely begun to
satisfy our own appetites when a mounted Arab, armed to the teeth,
rode up and asked for food, to whom we gladly gave a portion, for,
once fed from our store, he becomes an ally, not a foe. Perhaps I
ought here to add that on our way to this place from Abel we were
accosted by an armed Arab, who demanded "backsheesh" as I rode abreast
of him: feeling that we owed him naught but love and good-will, we
gave him no money, and were suffered to pass without further
molestation. The ruin of the ancient city of Dan is very complete; a
few broken walls, fallen stones, and pieces of pottery are all that
are left to tell of a people long since passed away.

The story of Dan is soon told. Originally an agricultural colony of
the Phoenicians, called Lessem or Laish, it was captured by six
hundred Danites from the towns of Zorah and Eshtaol. The capture of
Laish by the Danites in the north was the fulfilment of Moses's
prophetic blessing to the tribe: "Dan is a lion's whelp; he shall leap
from Bashan." Deut. xxxiii. 22.

Another hour's ride brought us to Banias, standing amid the ruins of
the ancient Cæsarea Philippi. The modern village is inhabited by some
one hundred persons of the Moslem faith, who live in wretched
ignorance and poverty. We lodged at the house of the sheik; a room was
assigned us and mats spread. There we stretched our weary limbs, but,
as the sequel proved, not so much to sleep as to contemplate upon the
fact that we had nearly reached the base of Hermon and the site of
Cæsarea Philippi, and upon the record that our Lord, after healing the
blind man at Bethsaida, "came into the coast of Cæsarea
Philippi"--that not far from this place He made that striking appeal
to His disciples: "Whom say ye that I am?" and soon after, taking
three of His disciples, "He went up into a mountain, and was
transfigured before them." Yes,

    "I tread where the Twelve in their wayfaring trod,
    I stand where they stood with the Chosen of God--
    Where His message was heard and His lessons were taught,
    Where the blind were restored and the healing was wrought."

The next morning, before leaving, we conversed with a son of the
sheik, himself a husband and father, upon the importance of education.
He acknowledged his own inability to read, and further said that the
children were all needed by their parents to work; and as to woman,
her business was to care for the house and meet the wants of men, and
if she did not do this well she must be beaten to make her do it. Such
is the state of civilization where once stood a great and prosperous
city, whose architectural ruins attest the fact that its citizens must
have been men of skill and taste. Again in the saddle, we turned our
course northward. Near noon we ascended a high elevation, where our
dragoman halted and called out, "Look! look!" Facing southward, we
looked and saw Hermon on our left standing in majestic greatness, and
beyond, far to the south, the waters of the Sea of Galilee. Mid the
glare of a noonday sun the little sea seems a molten mass of silvery
hue. We have within the scope of our vision a mountain whose name is
accepted as a word of beauty, a valley of great natural fertility, and
the arena of mighty deeds done by men whose record is found in the
"Book of books," and whose God is the Lord. Here young Jordan springs
into life and links its destiny with the waters of Merom, and onward
the eye stretches to that now placid sheet where in a dark and stormy
night the chosen band were troubled, and where a compassionate Saviour
allayed their fears.

We dined at Rasheiyet,[8] at the house of a native Protestant
minister, where we were kindly entertained. He accompanied us to the
school of the American mission. We were pleased with what we saw,
more especially with the students' knowledge of scriptural history.
Several hours more brought us to Hasbeiya; we lodged at the
school-house and had our mats spread upon the seats, thus
extemporizing a bedstead. Next morning about twenty of the girls came
in to meet us, and also two of the female teachers. We spoke of the
way of life and salvation, with such words of encouragement as we
found in our hearts. A ride of several hours brought us to Rasheyyá
el-Wady. We lodged at the house of one Moses, the first person of the
place who embraced Protestant views.

  [8] In tracing out the course of these travels I have used the
  spelling given in Bradley's _Atlas of the World_.

Next day, 1st of 12th mo., held a meeting at the school-house. I felt
strengthened, as I trust, to preach "Christ, and Him crucified," as
the only way of life and salvation. On the following day at an early
hour we passed out of the town by the light of a lantern. At half-past
one P. M. we began to ascend Lebanon. At one place near the top we
found our path literally strewed with fossils (bivalves); some of
these we collected to take home with us. After a journey of nearly
fifteen hours we reached Shumlan, our mountain-home, and were glad to
find our companions in comfortable health, and I trust a feeling of
thankfulness was felt to our heavenly Father for His protecting care
so mercifully granted during our separation. Very sincerely, thy
friend,

                                                  ELI JONES.

We give below some extracts from letters written to the _Friends'
Review_ by Ellen Clare Miller, giving a definite account of the number
and working of the schools in Beirut and Lebanon for the education of
the young sons and daughters of Syria. E. and S. Jones have visited
the greater number of them, and found many different kinds of
laborers--Americans, English, Scotch, and Syrian--all doing a good
work for the land:

"Most of those among the natives who are true Christians, and who are
exerting a good influence upon the people here, refer gratefully to
the American missionaries as those who were instrumental in bringing
them to the truth. The American mission has stations at many places
among the mountains, most of which have been visited by Eli Jones and
A. L. Fox; and besides those in the north of Syria, which we shall not
see, they have three in Sidon and its neighborhood under the care of
W. Eddy, which we hope soon to visit. The Syrian Protestant college of
which Dr. Bliss is president is an institution where Druses,
Maronites, Greeks, Armenians, and Protestants together receive a
literary, scientific, and medical training under Protestant influence.
E. and S. Jones visited this college last week, when they met
twenty-eight of the young men, whom they were invited to address. Eli
Jones set before them clearly and forcibly the great power of
individual influence possessed by each student, the influence their
institution must exert on the land, the measure it was of the power of
the country, as no stream can rise higher than its source, and as the
fountain is the stream will be. Sybil Jones, as an American mother who
knew much of such institutions in her own land, affectionately urged
them to work perseveringly and prayerfully in their studies, that each
one might leave the world better for his having been in it. It was a
very interesting visit; the young men, a fine, intellectual-looking
company, listened with great attention, and afterward gathered round
the Friends to express their thanks for their kind interest in them.

"There is a large girls' school in Beirut, under the immediate care of
a Syrian and his wife, but superintended by the wife of Dr. Bliss, Dr.
Thompson's wife, and other ladies. This we have visited more than
once, when E. and S. Jones have spoken to the children."

"Besides the school at Shumlan, which is under the care of the English
Society for Promoting Female Education in the East, the schools
supported by England are all in the hands of Elizabeth Bowen Thompson,
whose work is a very extensive one. Her schools are at present twelve
in number--five at villages in the mountains--all (with the exception
of one recently opened at Ainzabatté, where an English young lady is
stationed) taught by natives who have been trained by E. B. Thompson
herself. Her work here began in 1860, when the fearful struggle
between the Druses, Maronites, and Mohammedans made so many widows and
orphans. These Elizabeth Thompson gathered around her at Beirut,
providing for and educating them. Since then the field has gradually
opened before her, until she has now seven day-schools in Beirut and
its immediate neighborhood, and a normal training-school of upward of
sixty boarders. All of these E. and S. J. have visited, many of them
frequently."

"There are many daughters of Jews and Mohammedans among E. B.
Thompson's scholars, and it is very interesting to hear these little
girls singing Christian hymns with the others and repeating and
listening to passages predicting the coming of the Messiah alike of
the Jew and the Christian, and testifying of Jesus as the Christ. E.
and S. Jones had a very interesting meeting with about forty of the
native teachers and others connected with these British schools. There
is a large girls' school, with an orphanage, under the care of the
Prussian deaconesses, similar to the one we visited at Smyrna. Here
Sybil Jones had an interesting time with the sisters and the children.
She also visited the hospital, an establishment in beautiful order,
under the care of four of the sisterhood, where, in a large house
finely situated near the seashore, the very poor are kindly nursed and
cared for. A school for Jewish children, conducted by missionaries
sent out by the Jews' society in Scotland, has lately been established
in Beirut. To this also the Friends paid a visit, which was spoken of
by teachers as very helpful."

"We left the terraced sides of Lebanon on the last day of the year,
returning to the region of the palm, orange, and prickly pear. The
weather has this month been very fine, though broken now and then by
one of the fierce, sudden winter storms with their rushing rain and
violent thunder and lightning. This wild climate suits Sybil Jones
remarkably well; she has been better since returning to Beirut than
she remembers to have been before, and she enjoys the riding on
donkey-back. Eli Jones is better than when we first landed in Syria,
though the bracing air of the mountains suits him better than this
more relaxing temperature. We have visited most of the missionaries.
Friends and their principles were almost unknown here, but we have
been most kindly received, and we hope way has been made for others of
our Society who may come to this country. E. and S. Jones one day
visited the Beirut prison, into which they were admitted without
hesitation, and where they had the pleasure of speaking to about forty
poor creatures, and of pointing them to Him who alone has power to
break our spiritual fetters."

       *       *       *       *       *

Below we give extracts from a letter of Eli Jones to the _Friends'
Review_, written from Jaffa in Palestine:

"_2d mo. 17th, 1868._ E. C. Miller's health appearing not quite equal
to a long journey, and finding it not possible to obtain more than
three seats in the diligence for Damascus on the 25th of 1st mo., it
was arranged that our young friend should 'stay by the stuff' in
Beirut while the other members of our party went forward. Accordingly,
at the early hour of two o'clock A. M. we arose, breakfasted at
half-past two, and at three took conveyance for the station, and at
four precisely, with shawls, wraps, sandwiches, etc., were nicely
packed in the coupée of the diligence."

"Our ride increased in interest as the young day grew upon us, and by
the time the sun had thrown his full blaze of light athwart the
western slope of Lebanon the objects seen through the transparent
atmosphere of this land presented a most delightful view. Our course
was sufficiently tortuous to enable us at times to look down upon
Beirut and its surrounding olive- and mulberry-orchards, stately
palms, and suburban villages, while beyond lay the Great Sea, dotted
here and there with the sail of many a merchant-ship, and then again
Sunnin, the highest western point of Lebanon, snow-capped, stood
majestically before us clad in the changing hues of early morning."

"Reached the summit near ten, and after another hour's ride of almost
flying speed we looked down upon the great valley of Buka'a or
Coele-Syria, bounded on the east by the Anti-Lebanon, clothed in its
snowy vesture, while far to our right Hermon, the imperial monarch of
Syrian mountains, was seen, in its appearance fully justifying the
appellation sometimes applied to it--that of a silver breastplate."

"Just as the darkness of night shut out from our view the fertile
valley in which Damascus stood, our last relay of animals was attached
to the carriage, consisting of six white horses; and fine specimens
they were. A little farther on our attention was arrested by the sound
of water on our right, and we were told that it was the Barada River,
the Abana of Scripture. 'Are not Abana and Pharpar, rivers of
Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel?' The remainder of our
journey lay along the fertile valley of this ancient river. It may,
with the strictest propriety, be termed a 'river of Damascus,' as it
divides the city into two parts and furnishes a liberal supply of
water to many of its inhabitants. We found comfortable quarters at the
Dimitris' hotel. The proprietor, a Greek, speaks broken English and
strives to make the stay of his guests as agreeable as circumstances
will admit.

"_26th._ Sent our certificates to the missionaries for their perusal.
At 12 M. attended the prayer-meeting of the few persons here who speak
English. After some singing and prayers, and a rather long theological
discussion, liberty was given to others to speak. My dear Sybil
availed herself of the opportunity to express the feelings which lay
with weight upon her heart. This was done briefly, when she knelt in
earnest supplication on behalf of those present and for the spread of
the glorious gospel of God our Saviour."

"The next day visited two of the schools under the care of the
missionaries; strove to encourage teachers and pupils to act well
their part. Then went to the home of one of the Bible-women employed
by E. B. Thompson to go from house to house and teach such women as
desire to read the Bible."

"During our stay in the city we had frequently at our morning readings
of the Holy Scriptures the company of the Bible-women and a few
others, when our hearts were made glad in the Lord."... "A few weeks
previous to the abdication of Louis Philippe the French obtained a
foothold in Algeria, after a lengthened struggle of fifteen years or
more, when Abdel-Kader, the sultan of the Arabs and one of the most
remarkable men of his nation, was induced to surrender to the power of
the French, on the condition that he might be allowed to retire to a
Mohammedan country as a stipendiary exile."... "He is a follower of
Mohammed, the founder of Islamism, and has shown his devotion to the
teachings of the Koran by a pilgrimage to Mecca and Medina and by a
lifelong adherence to the religion of his fathers. In 1860 thousands
of Christians in the Lebanon and in Damascus were massacred in cold
blood, instigated by the deadly hate of the followers of the false
Prophet, while hundreds of others, men, women, and children, fled from
their pursuers and took refuge in the house and about the premises of
Abdel-Kader, who in the exercise of the influence his position gives
him, and from the promptings of a kind heart, aided by his trusty
followers, shielded the helpless ones from the fury and fanaticism of
his co-religionists. Once the mob approached his house and demanded
with frantic yells that the Christians within it should be delivered
up to them. He, accompanied by a strong body of his followers, went
out to confront the yelling crowd. 'Wretches!' he exclaimed, 'is this
the way you honor your prophet? May his curse be upon you! Shame on
you! shame! You will yet live to repent. You think you may do as you
like with the Christians, but the day of retribution will come. The
Franks will yet come and turn your mosques into churches. Not a
Christian will I give up. _They are my brothers._' The mob
withdrew."... "Abdel-Kader[9] was at length enabled to repose. He had
rescued _fifteen thousand souls_ belonging to the Eastern churches
from death, and worse than death, by his fearless courage, his
unwearied activity, and his catholic-minded zeal. All the
representatives of the Christian powers then residing at Damascus,
without one single exception, had owed their lives to him. Strange and
unparalleled destiny! An Arab had thrown his guardian ægis over the
outraged majesty of Europe. A descendant of the Prophet had sheltered
and protected the (professed) Spouse of Christ. The day previous to
our leaving Damascus it seemed right to seek an interview with this
noble exile, and from a full heart, in my own name and in behalf of my
country and fellow-professors, thank him for his kind and humane
interposition, by which, under Providence, so many fellow-beings were
rescued from an untimely and a cruel death. Passing up the street upon
which the house of the great chief stands, and having Abou Ibrahim for
a guide (who, by the way, claims descent from Aaron), we observed
Abdel-Kader enter the gateway just before we reached it, where he was
standing when we arrived. Our guide having addressed him, he kindly
noticed A. L. Fox and myself, and, cordially beckoning us to follow
him, led us to a simple reception-room, where, being seated, we had an
opportunity of saying what lay nearest to our hearts, and enjoyed the
pleasure of feeling that it was kindly taken.[10] While in Damascus we
were in the 'street called Straight,' and visited the place indicated
by tradition as the house of Judas, where the blind Saul of Tarsus
lodged. We were shown the house of Ananias, who was sent to cure the
penitent of his blindness, and the place in the wall where the
disciples took him by night and let him down in a basket. I am not
surprised that the Christian traveller feels some misgivings as to the
identity of these places when he remembers that the evidence is mainly
traditional. There is, however, scarcely room to doubt that the modern
city occupies the site of the Damascus of Scripture, and that the
'street called Straight' is the identical one entered by Saul on that
memorable day that gave to the Gentile world a great apostle and to
the Christian Church one of its brightest luminaries."... "The
conversion of Paul was one of the most momentous events of Scripture
history. The fiery zeal of Saul the persecutor was not extinguished--it
was sanctified."...

  [9] From _Life of Abdel-Kader_, by Col. Churchill.

  [10] Eli Jones spoke his mission in English. Alfred Fox translated it
  into German, and the Jew gave it to the Arab sultan in his own
  language. Through the medium of three of the world's great languages
  the representatives of these three great religions expressed their
  thoughts to each other, and the burden of the thoughts was love and
  gratitude. The message being given, refreshments were put before the
  strangers, and then Abdel-Kader withdrew as a courtesy, so that these
  visitors might not be constrained to go out backward from his
  presence--an honor due to him as sultan.

"Paul the missionary retained all his former energy, boldness, and
determination. In Damascus he first preached 'Christ crucified;' then
he went into Arabia, then to Antioch, then through Asia Minor; then he
passed the Hellespont to Greece; and then he went a prisoner to Rome,
where he preached the gospel though chained to a heathen soldier. The
apostle Paul occupies the first place among the New-Testament
worthies."... "Damascus is as old as history itself. It has survived
generations of cities that have risen up in succession around it and
have passed away. While they all lie in ruins, Damascus retains the
freshness and vigor of youth."... "Outside of the eastern gate of the
city is a leper hospital, which to this day is supposed by the
inhabitants to occupy the site of Naaman's house."... "There are in
the city about thirty thousand Christians, ten thousand Jews, one
hundred thousand Mohammedans, and of Protestant Christians less than
one hundred, all counted."

"On the 31st of the month we returned to Beirut by diligence. During
our stay of five days at Damascus snow had fallen upon the mountains,
but not so as materially to retard our progress until we had nearly
reached the summit of Lebanon, when, being furnished with a train of
twelve animals and four outriders, aided by a strong force of men, we
proceeded without much detention, arriving at our comfortable quarters
in good time."... "We anticipate leaving in a few days for Jerusalem,
should the weather permit and the health of our party prove equal to
the effort."... "With love to all who love the truth as it is in Jesus
Christ,

                                                "ELI JONES."

The following are extracts from a letter from Ellen Clare Miller,
written a few days after the return of Eli Jones and A. L. Fox from
Damascus:

"Eli Jones had a meeting at Beirut with some of the young Syrian men
of the town, which, though it was a stormy night, was well attended
and an interesting time. On First day, the 9th, he had a very good
meeting in a suburb of the town at the house of one of the principal
men in the neighborhood."... "It was a very interesting group, upward
of one hundred being present, some of the turbaned old men leaning
forward on their staves with their eyes fixed on Eli Jones while,
after the reading of the twelfth of Ecclesiastes from the Arabic
Bible, he addressed them through the aid of our kind interpreter,
Maalim Saleem, seeking to bring all before him, old and young, to
enter into the service of Him whom he had from his youth proved to be
a good Master."

"On the 7th, Sybil Jones had a meeting with the women connected with
E. M. Thompson's school, at which she spoke to them for about an hour
of our need of a Saviour."... "Many of these women have learned to
read, and they are very anxious that a school should be opened for
them where they may be taught to read and sew by a native teacher." ...
"She visited also some of the poor women at their own homes and
the Bible-women employed by E. M. Thompson, all of whom seemed very
ready to receive a visit from one having their best interests at
heart, and to listen gladly to the word spoken."... "On Second day
evening a meeting was held by Eli and Sybil Jones with the
Arabic-speaking congregation at Beirut, who readily responded to the
invitation to meet them. Eli Jones addressed them from the words, 'The
law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ.'"...
"Sybil Jones followed, urging the necessity of a heart-changing
repentance."... "Sybil Jones paid interesting visits to some of the
harems at Beirut, the first time we had been inside any of those
'gilded cages,' where the poor women, without the resource of books,
for they cannot read, or of work, for they cannot sew, talk, sleep,
dream, and smoke life away, without the variety of walking out, for
they cannot be trusted abroad, and unable to look out into the world
except through a lattice. We went under the care of E. M. Thompson,
who obtains ready access." ... "We were driven as near the first house
as the carriage could be taken, but on alighting had to ascend a
steep, rough, narrow road, crossing a watercourse here and there, then
a branch road of steps, then another torrent-path. The roads of
ill-governed Syria are deplorable indeed. At last we reached the door
of a large but unpretending-looking house, or rather group of houses,
for one opened out of another. Here lived four families, related to
each other, of the first rank in Beirut, the grandmothers, the wives
of the house, girls, and children, in the flowing dress of the East,
sitting on the floor by the ashes of the braziers or crouching on the
divan, all but the youngest smoking the unfailing nargileh with its
long flexible tube. They received us most cordially and
affectionately, and seated us by their sides, and through the medium
of one of E. M. Thompson's native teachers Sybil Jones spoke to them,
and also E. M. Thompson; but it was very difficult to secure the
attention of the company for any length of time; they could not
refrain from laughing and chatting together. Poor creatures! some of
them looked almost devoid of intellect with the long pipe-tubes in
their mouths; others were very pretty and seemed quite to appreciate
the loss they sustained by being uneducated. Some of the highest
Mohammedan families are very anxious that E. M. Thompson should open a
school for their elder girls, where they would send them if no man was
allowed to look upon them. The desire for education is waking up among
them in a remarkable manner." ... "The ladies are all waited upon by
dark, white-teethed African female slaves in scanty clothing. Sherbet,
coffee, and sweetmeats were handed round, and it is an insult to
decline partaking, however many houses we may have visited." ... "Poor
creatures! we could not but desire that the true light might enter
their dwellings and shine into their hearts."

"We sailed from Beirut on the 12th, and came down the coast in the
night, passing in the darkness Sidon, Tyre, Mount Carmel, and Cæsarea.
After a rather stormy passage we anchored next morning before Jaffa,
which rises up from the sea on a round hill, at each side of which is
a sandy bay."... "It is difficult by description to give much idea of
Jaffa with its steep, narrow, dirty, and muddy lanes, and
street-stairs which climb up the hill among the old, dilapidated
houses crowded irregularly together."... "Jaffa is very ancient, and,
notwithstanding its extreme dirtiness, an interesting place."... "The
most interesting place to visit in the town itself is the
supposed--and, indeed, well-authenticated--site of the house of Simon
the tanner, which stands by the sea-side, rising up above the
town-wall. The building now standing is not supposed to be the very
one in which Peter lodged, but to have been built on the spot where it
stood. In the courtyard is a very ancient well which helps to identify
the place, and beside it is a large stone trough of undoubted
antiquity, probably used to soak hides in, and partly covered by a
large flat stone like a currier's table."

"There is mission-work going on at Jaffa; P. Metzler, a German
educated at the Basle institution, carries on a mill, with part of the
profits of which he supports a girls' day-school."... "Eli Jones with
A. L. Fox visited this school the other day, when he spoke to and
examined the children, with whose intelligence and answers he was much
pleased."

"While the Friends were in Damascus I was present at a native wedding,
where the honored guests were each furnished with a taper to hold;
which had a great interest as a remnant of the going forth with lamps
to meet the bridegroom alluded to in the parable of the Ten Virgins.
New light too has been thrown on the expression 'heaping coals of fire
on his head' by finding that it is customary for the baker when he
clears his oven at night to give away the living embers to those who
will accept the kindness; and we have met persons in the evening
carrying these coals away on their heads in large open braziers. It is
remarkable how little the customs of the people have changed within
the last two or three thousand years."

       *       *       *       *       *

After the above letter was written the Friends went from Jaffa to
Jerusalem, thence to Marseilles, having held many meetings and
interviews with teachers and scholars in the schools, which are doing
a great work toward causing the light of day to dawn upon unfortunate
Syria. The following extracts from a letter written by Eli Jones to
the _Friends' Review_ from London will state clearly the reasons for
their leaving Palestine sooner than was expected: "We are again in
this great city, and comfortably quartered at the house of our very
kind friends Stafford and Hannah S. Allen, where we are seeking rest
and a renewal of strength for further service for our good Master. For
more than two months past my dear Sybil has been suffering from an
attack of disease, leaving her at times very weak; consequently, we
were unable to accomplish fully what we had in view in the Orient,
leaving several places in Palestine and in Egypt that we might hasten
the time of embarkation at Alexandria in order to bear our invalid to
a more favorable climate, as the only thing likely to facilitate a
cure. The voyage, with the use of remedies prescribed by the physician
on shipboard, arrested the disorder for a time, and we hoped the cure
might prove permanent; but the journey by train from Marseilles to
Nismes proved too much for the strength of our charge, and the
disorder rallied with fresh force and continued for some time, but
again yielded to skilful treatment and nursing by our dear friend
Lydia Majolier, whose kindness and sympathy, with those of our
much-loved friends in the south of France, greatly cheered all our
party. Near noon of the 8th we took the train for Paris, and thence to
London by way of Boulogne, where we arrived after a journey of
thirty-three hours' continuance. Dear S. bore the journey admirably,
and we now entertain the hope that a few days of quiet and rest may be
of great use, so that we may be able to proceed to Dublin in season
for the yearly meeting. Our long sojourn in the East has not been
without its trials. Sometimes they seemed to us peculiar, and when we
attempted to look into the future it seemed doubtful if not dark.
Still, that kind Hand always stretched out to save has gently led the
way and shielded us from harm. Blessed be the name of the Lord!"...
"A. L. Fox left us last evening for his home, where we now fancy him
in the society of wife and child, father and mother, brothers and
sisters, to whom he is tenderly attached and by whom he is greatly
beloved. Dear E. C. Miller intends to remain until Second or Third day
of next week before she leaves to join the home-circle, by whom she
will receive a warm welcome, but saddened by the thought that one dear
sister waits not on earth to welcome the coming one, but in another
and higher scene of existence."




CHAPTER XIV.

_SECOND VISIT TO THE HOLY LAND._


The cause for which the two Friends came to England before fully
accomplishing their work in Syria was the extreme feebleness of Sybil
Jones. A change and partial rest seemed imperative.

They soon began to labor in Cornwall, and they were gratified to find
"Quakerism still vital" in this place where George Fox had sowed the
seed exactly two centuries before. Considerable time was spent and
much edifying work done at Falmouth, where they were pleased to find
so many Friends of high literary and scientific attainments. The small
meetings of the neighboring villages received new life from the
earnest words and encouraging advice of the travellers.

One of their letters describes the visit to a meeting at Come-to-Good
in the parish of Kea:

"Here is a meeting-house belonging to Friends built more than two
hundred years ago. It has a most primitive appearance. The walls are
of stone, the abutments of the same material; the roof is thatched
with straw. It is in a rural and retired spot. Only one Friend, and he
of more than fourscore years, resides in the neighborhood; but the
many grassy mounds that press about the door tell of generations that
have passed away. The meeting here was one of great interest, and one
to which we recur with unfeigned pleasure. He who, we doubt not, has
from time to time met his servants here and at that altar of 'unhewn
stones,' was now present to bless the waiting ones. In this humble
structure George Fox proclaimed the good news with his wonted zeal and
with all the energy of a reformer."

In the same letter Eli Jones writes with great feeling:

"A little farther on we reach the Land's End. Here it stands, a bold
promontory, with granite fingers pointing toward the New World. As I
climb these mighty bulwarks that have successfully defied the power of
Old Ocean through every change of time, and look out upon the unstable
waters toward the setting sun, what thoughts of kindred and country
fill my breast! Lord of life, great Spirit in the centre of all
worlds, bless thou them!"

For more than two months they dwelt at Plymouth, during which time
Sybil Jones gained strength rapidly, although she was in a very
critical condition. A Friend from that city writes of their message
there: "I believe there are many in this part of the country who will
have reason to bless God in eternity for the visit and gospel labors
of Eli and Sybil Jones." Members who had never before opened their
lips in public bore testimony that they desired to be on the Lord's
side.

The southern part of England was faithfully travelled over, and the
joys of a "life hid with Christ in God" proclaimed to the people, who
everywhere received the messengers and the message gladly. The various
meetings of Ireland were again attended. A warm reception was given to
the American workers, who were already well known there from their
previous efforts, and an earnest and loving spirit seemed to pervade
many hearts. As this year (1868) was closing, Eli Jones, with a heart
full of love to God for his immeasurable blessings, wrote to one of
his friends in the land which he so loved:

"As we turn to other households and to our country, and to other
countries and peoples, we see everywhere evidences of the
superintending care of Him in whom we live and move and have our
being. And are we not reminded by divers tokens for good that light is
advancing? And may we not accept as true the words of the poet:

    'Upon the great dial-plate of ages
    The light advanced no more recedes'?

If this be so, let us bind on our armor, and as the newborn year takes
its place as the successor of those that are past, and after it shall
have done its full measure of service in the long line of years shall
give place to others, who we hope may be blessed in their deed and
doing far beyond their progenitors.

"On the closing day of the last year I stood with my fellow-travellers
upon the western slope of Mount Lebanon, and there reviewed the past
and looked prayerfully forward to the incoming year--a year whose
history will soon be complete. And what a history! and what a work has
been accomplished!--work in which millions have been actors. The
citizens of the two great English-speaking nations, Great Britain and
the United States, have with unprecedented unanimity at their late
elections declared in favor of religious liberty and of political
equality. In Spain multitudes seem only waiting to claim for
themselves and their countrymen these inalienable rights of all men.

"Even in Turkey, where the teachings of the Koran and the False
Prophet have dominated so long, see we not bright rays of light here
and there amid the darkness? I think we do. The Christian woman with
her firman from the sultan is diligently instituting schools where the
children of the Jew, the Christian, and the Mohammedan are taught
_not_ the _Koran_, but the _page_ written by inspiration of God.

"If we turn to Madagascar, that far-off island of the sea, we observe
much with which to fill a large page in the history of the year just
closing. A queen has reached the throne who looks approvingly upon the
workers among her pagan subjects, while thousands press about those
who tell the good news of salvation by Jesus Christ, and hear them
gladly; while Liberia, India, China, and Japan can each furnish a page
that shall tell of light advancing and declare to the world that 'God
is love' and the 'Father of us all.'"

As the winter passed and Sybil Jones felt new strength come from her
partial rest in Great Britain, while her husband continually carried
on the work, sometimes alone, sometimes with her help, they each began
to feel that there was more work to be done in the East, though
neither had spoken to the other in regard to it. The 22d of 2d mo.,
their prospect having become definite, with the full approval of
English Friends they once more embarked for Syria. They spent nearly a
week in the south of France, revisiting their many friends there and
encouraging them all to continue on in their lives of service to the
Master. The meetings were very large, sometimes fully five hundred
being present, and they found their work done sixteen years before had
left a lasting impression.

After a delightful voyage over the blue waters of the Mediterranean
they came to Alexandria, where there were many opportunities offered
for spreading the news of the way of life through the Saviour. Here
and at Cairo there were many who gladly listened to the great truths
which they were inspired to preach. There, where Napoleon had told his
soldiers that forty centuries looked down upon them from the heights
of the Pyramids, these missionaries of love labored to point their
hearers to the Ancient of Days, whose habitation is from eternity and
which standeth sure. The different mission-schools of Northern Egypt
were visited and helped in various ways.

Of this work Ellen Clare Miller, again their companion, writes:

"The visit to Egypt was altogether of remarkable interest, there
being, especially among the native Christians at Alexandria, an
interesting and open field for the spread of _spiritual Christianity_,
and an earnest longing in the minds of some after a closer
_acquaintance with the teaching of the Holy Spirit and His appearing
in the soul_."

The 16th of 4th mo. they came to the end of their journey, and camped
outside the city of Jerusalem. At once they began the work of visiting
schools and holding little meetings for all who wished to hear the
gospel, not only in Jerusalem, but in all the surrounding villages. As
these laborers rose before the groups gathered round them on the very
spots where the works of our Master were wrought and where his words
were spoken, with the scenes of the greatest historic events
stretching out before them, a new power seemed to fill them, and their
souls were stirred for the salvation and upbuilding of the people of
this Holy Land. No class of its inhabitants was neglected; even the
lepers were recipients of their message. Eli Jones visited the
community of these unfortunate beings, and tried to induce them to
come to the hospital prepared for them, telling them also of Him who
came into this world to deliver us from even a worse disease than
leprosy.

A letter from Eli Jones, written from Burkin, will suffice to give the
reader an idea of their travels and a description of some of the
places visited. Among others he speaks of Ramallah, where the
mission-school was begun during their visit there. The letter was
written for the _Friends' Review_:

"Tented near this little town, the time of day something past 'high
noon' and the heat at 94° in the shade, I take the time to jot down a
few thoughts, or perhaps I should say facts, for the perusal of my
North American correspondents. Since I last wrote thee we have passed
through portions of the ancient country of Egypt, have looked with
feelings of admiration and wonder upon her pyramids and hieroglyphics,
the former standing out to-day in all their primeval strength to tell
of the _greatness_, or perhaps more correctly of the _folly_, of their
builders, and the latter as we saw them upon the lasting rock
apparently as clearly defined as when fresh from the hand of the
recorder.

"The Nile, emphatically 'the river of Egypt,' still flows onward to
the sea, and in its season annually waters the country, giving
abundant fertility to the soil, which if cultivated with skill and
care would make the adopted country of Joseph again the granary of the
world. We had a very pleasant sail upon this wonderful river,
embarking near the spot where floated the ark of bulrushes containing
the Hebrew child who in the fulness of time became the leader and
deliverer of Israel from their long bondage in the land of the
Pharaohs. At the time of our visit the river was spanned by a bridge
of boats, thrown across by order of the viceroy on the occasion of the
marriage of some members of his family: this circumstance gave us a
carriage-ride for several miles where otherwise we must have had
recourse to donkeys as a mode of conveyance.

"A canal has been constructed extending from the Nile near Cairo to
Suez upon the Red Sea; these places are also connected by the
railroad; much of the way this runs parallel to the canal. On our way
to the latter place we followed the iron horse for five or six hours
across the desert of sand which must needs be passed, and which is
enlivened only by the moving sails upon the canal, the untiring steeds
that bore us on, and those tell-tale wires which, as with loving
arms, are embracing not only the seas and fertile lands, but also the
desert wilds. An highway (Isa. xi. 16) _is_ here, and shall not _this_
desert yet blossom as a rose? To our party the Red Sea was an object
of much interest: as we sailed out upon it we beheld at our right the
mountains through whose defiles the Lord's people are supposed to have
passed on their approach to the water's edge, where, notwithstanding
the hot pursuit of their enemies, they were to hear the assuring
language: 'Fear ye not; stand still and see the salvation of the Lord,
which He will show to you to-day; for the Egyptians which ye have seen
to-day, ye shall see them again no more for ever;' and on our left was
the gently-sloping strand where they made their exit from their watery
way, and where we subsequently landed, some of our party going a
little way into the interior to drink of the waters at the 'well of
Moses,' which remaineth unto this day. Let the God of Israel be
magnified, and let not His wonderful works be forgotten by the
children of men.

"During our brief stay in this part of Egypt we had occasionally the
opportunity of observing the progress of the work upon the projected
ship-canal across the Isthmus of Suez. Of its ultimate completion and
success its projectors are very sanguine, and it is equally clear that
for the attainment of that end great engineering skill has been
displayed and a large expenditure of money been made, and such a
measure of unfaltering perseverance and of unflagging determination to
overcome opposing difficulties brought into requisition as have been
manifested in few other enterprises undertaken by man.

"On the 6th of the 5th mo. the male members of our party left for
Jericho, travelling the very road, we may suppose, upon which the man
was journeying who 'fell among thieves, who stripped him of his
raiment and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead.' We
halted near mid-day under the 'shadow of a great rock,' and not far
from the spot made ever memorable and dear to the Christian by one of
the most beautiful and instructive parables of our blessed Lord--that
of the Good Samaritan.

"We found the way rough and in some places difficult, yet there are in
several places indications that in the centuries past, perhaps in the
days of Roman rule, there was a highway here where the chariots of
Jehu and Jabin might have 'rolled harmlessly on.'

"Our tents we located near the modern Jericho, which is supposed to
occupy the site of Gilgal, the camping-ground of the host commanded by
Joshua, and where he did 'pitch those twelve stones which they took
out of Jordan' in commemoration of their miraculous passage through
the waters. Almost immediately upon reaching this place we put
ourselves in communication with the people. Found the entire
population Moslem, not one of whom can read, and the evidences of
moral degradation, especially among some of the females, were
remarkable. It should be said, however, that when we spoke to them of
matters of the highest moment, and read to them from the sacred
volume, the majority listened with some approach to respectful
attention.

"In the evening the sheik and some twenty or more of the men of the
village responded to an invitation to come to our tent: we read a
portion of Scripture and spoke to them of the beneficial effects of
education upon a people, and of our individual duties to God. Our
remarks were ably seconded by Prof. E. C. Mitchell of Alton, Ill., who
kindly united with us in striving to stimulate the inhabitants of
Jericho in the way of mental and moral improvement. At the close of
the interview they assured us that we were the first persons who had
ever offered them a helping hand or spoken to them of a better way
than the one they were then pursuing, and added that on the next
evening they would tell us whether they would accept our offer to give
them a school. At an early hour next morning we were on our way to the
Dead Sea, where we enjoyed the luxury of a bath in its bitter and
buoyant waters; thence we passed on to the Jordan, to the place where
thousands of pilgrims come in commemoration of the passage of the
pilgrim band from Egypt under the lead of Joshua, and of the baptism
of the world's great Deliverer by John, that the righteousness of the
law might be fulfilled. Here we lunched and duplicated our bath in the
Dead Sea: found the current of the river strong and rapid, requiring
much care to retain one's position. The water is shoal, but of
sufficient depth in places to allow of baptism by immersion.

"On our return to Jericho the sheik kindly engaged to convene some of
the people in the town, where we met fifty or sixty persons, and among
the number several females, who brought their long pipes and engaged
in smoking as they took their seats upon the ground. Their faces and
breasts were sadly tattooed, and on the whole they presented a
spectacle not easily matched short of the Western wilds of America. It
is, however, but justice to this country to say that during my long
stay here I have nowhere else seen its like. The motley company were
addressed by Prof. Mitchell and others of our party, and we cherish
the hope that this labor will not be in vain in the Lord, but that in
due time fruit may appear. Soon after reaching our tents several of
the men called to say that they wished a school for their children,
and if we would send a teacher they would gladly receive him. I hope
the means may be found to support a school at this place. The good
influence would extend rapidly to the towns around.

"First day, 9th of the month, some of our party at an early hour in
the morning were at Bethany, the town of Mary and Martha, where we
collected upon the top of a house such persons as we found at liberty,
and read the account of the raising to life of Lazarus, as recorded by
the evangelist, after which we trust Jesus Christ was preached as the
resurrection and the life.

"At half-past two P. M. of the 11th we left Jerusalem on our journey
northward, and soon after reached the top of Mount Scopus, where on
our right we enjoyed a delightful view of the Dead Sea, the valley of
the Jordan near its mouth, and beyond the mountains of Moab, and,
turning to review the ground travelled over, we had Jerusalem full in
view; and perhaps from no other point is the city seen to greater
advantage than from this, unless it be from Olivet. Tradition tells us
that Titus, the Roman invader, selected the top of Scopus for his
camping-ground, from which he could easily observe much that was
transpiring in and around the doomed city.

"We now leave, probably for the last time, the city dear to Jew and
Greek, to Moslem and Christian, and especially dear to us who have
found an open door to preach there Christ, and Him crucified.

"Some half hour on our way from Scopus we turned aside a little to
look upon the village of Anathoth in the land of Benjamin, the home of
Jeremiah the son of Hilkiah. Resuming our course, we soon reached
'Gibeah of Saul.' The place is indicated by little more than a conical
hill, which lay to our right. On our left and more distant, capping a
high eminence, Mizpah was seen. Farther on Ramah was reached, the home
of the good Samuel, 'and Samuel judged Israel all the days of his
life. And he went from year to year in circuits to Bethel and Gilgal
and Mizpah, and judged Israel in all those places. And his return was
to Ramah, for there was his house, and there he judged Israel, and
then he built an altar unto the Lord.'

"Reaching Ramallah, some three hours from Jerusalem we found our tent
in readiness to receive us. The town occupies an elevated position
overlooking the distant plain of Sharon. The air was cool and bracing.
12th, visited a boys' school at Ramallah. In the afternoon some of our
party visited one at Jifneh, the Gophna of Josephus. 13th, went to
Bethel, distant one and a half hours from our encampment.

"On approaching this place, so noted in Scripture records, we observed
the remains of a cistern 314 feet by 217 feet, constructed of massive
stones; the southern side is entire, the other sides are more or less
ruined. A portion of the enclosure is now used as a threshing-floor.
Here also is a fountain at which the cattle of Abraham often drank in
former days, and at which the maidens of Sarah were wont to fill their
pitchers as the Arab maidens do still.

"The Bethel of to-day is a miserable Moslem village with a low,
uneducated population, amongst whom we were unable to find more than
one person who could read. He is the one who calls the people to
prayers; to him we gave a tract and the Psalms of David in Arabic.

"As we spoke to some of the inhabitants of our great Father in heaven,
and of our obligations to serve Him, we were answered with little more
than a vacant stare and an expressed wish for backsheesh. What a
contrast between these followers of the False Prophet and him who is
called the 'father of the faithful,' who here spread his tent and here
rendered true homage to the great _I Am!_ and how unlike the patriarch
Jacob, who here, beneath heaven's broad canopy, slept, as many an Arab
now sleeps, on the bare ground with a stone for his pillow! Here he
dreamed of the ladder which reached from earth to heaven, and on which
the angels were ascending and descending, and on awakening was so
impressed with the holiness and majesty of Jehovah that he
exclaimed,'How dreadful is this place! This is none other than the
house of God.' And here the cheering promise was given him: 'In thee
and all thy _seed_ shall all the families of the earth be blessed; and
behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee in all places whither thou
goest.'

"Here Samuel, worthy of double honor, a prophet of God and a judge in
Israel, came on his yearly circuit from Gilgal and Mizpah to hold his
court and render righteous judgment between brethren; and thitherward
turned the steps of Elijah and Elisha while fulfilling their high
commission as servants of God.

"And here too came the youthful king Josiah, as foretold by the
prophet, and brake down the high-places of Jeroboam, and burned down
to the ground the grove that grew up on the hill for the worship of
Astarte.

"On our return from Bethel we held a meeting at Beeroth--now called
Bireh--with a few Christians and Moslems. Our interpreter read the
fifth chapter of Matthew, after which I drew their attention to the
teaching of the gospel, dwelling at some length upon the words,
'Therefore whatsoever ye would that men should do unto you, do ye even
so unto them.' They listened with marked attention to all that was
said. On leaving we were told that a few years since a difficulty
arose from a very slight cause between two families in the town, and,
spreading to others, the spirit of strife and revenge grew higher and
higher till in their murderous fury forty-four persons lost their
lives, and since then the spirit of revenge had shown itself in other
ways. Only the night before our meeting valuable fig trees had been
destroyed from the same cause, and we were told that some of the
parties concerned were present and heard our words of exhortation.

"Beeroth was one of the four cities of the Gibeonites, whose curious
story the name will at once recall. It is also thought to be the
halting-place of Joseph and Mary when they found that the child Jesus
was not among their friends and kinsfolk of the party. Ramallah,
twenty minutes from Beeroth, is professedly a Christian village,
occupying a commanding position from which we get a fine view westward
down the mountain-sides of Benjamin and Ephraim, and over the broad
plain of Sharon to the Mediterranean.

"Toward evening we held a meeting at the Protestant school-room in
this town. The crowd of men, women, and children became so dense that
nearly every one assumed a standing position, and all seemed very
eager to see the strangers, and, as I thought, very curious to hear a
woman address a public assembly. My S. J., taking her stand upon a bed
in a corner of the room, spoke earnestly and at considerable length
upon the way of life and salvation, to which many listened with fixed
attention.

"_14th._ At the request of S. J., a meeting was appointed for females;
many responded, and a satisfactory meeting was held. Meantime, the
male members of our party called at the Latin convent. Found the monk
at its head with a school of eight or ten boys, which he summarily
dismissed upon our entering, assigning as a reason that it was time
for them to leave, though it was but ten o'clock in the morning. From
the answers which he gave to our numerous inquiries we were induced to
think that although he and his associates may not do much to enlighten
the people around them, yet that as an individual he is really loyal
to the Church of which he is a member, and that he considers
salvation very unlikely, if not impossible, apart from conformity to
its rules and its traditional observances.

"In the evening a meeting was held with males only, in which they were
exhorted to prepare to meet their God in peace by repentance toward
Him and faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, and also to a faithful
performance of their several duties as husbands, fathers, and
brothers, that so the position of women may be elevated in this land
and her children prepared for a useful career among men.

"I am closing this sheet at Beirut, the 12th of 6th mo.; and as the
mail closes very soon, I have only time to add that our party are in
good health and look to turning their faces homeward in a few days.

               "Thy loving and sincere friend,
                                                "ELI JONES."

It will not be possible to give the further details of the faithful
efforts of this little party to promote the highest earthly and
eternal welfare of the inhabitants of this once highly favored land.
They visited all the spots made sacred by the steps of Him whom they
followed, but they went not to satisfy their desire of beholding: they
bore tidings of joy to the sorrowful. They pursued their journey as
far north as Beirut, preaching in every city and village, and leaving
in many places money behind them for the advancement of education.
Wholly devoted as they were to the service of the Lord, with great
love for all the human souls where they went, and power being given
them to tell the story of a mighty Deliverer, the fruit of work must
have been very abundant. We do not need to count those converted in
such work for the Lord, and even if we could we should still be unable
to estimate the value of the seed thrown broadcast over the land,
which may long lie dormant and finally bud into new grain.

On the 22d of 6th mo. Eli and Sybil Jones, with their companions, E.
C. Miller, Joseph Pim, Richard Allen, and T. C. Wakefield, sailed from
Beirut for the Occident, stopping on their way at Athens, Marseilles,
and Geneva, and reaching London the 10th of 7th mo. Soon after their
arrival in England the two American Friends embarked for their home.
Sybil Jones's work in the Eastern continent was now complete, and she
had the great satisfaction of feeling that she had in every particular
obeyed the call of Him whom she served.




CHAPTER XV.

_SYBIL JONES: HER LIFE-WORK AND DEATH._

    "For ever blessed be His name who bore
      Her blood-washed, white-robed spirit on and on,
    Through dark, deep waters to the radiant shore,
      Her warfare ended and the victory won.

    "Her children, underneath her native skies,
      Rise in the North, the South, the East, the West:
    In Europe, Asia, Africa they rise,
      Her sons and daughters, and pronounce her blessed.

    "Oh for a zeal like hers, to never tire!
      Oh for a faith like hers, to follow still
    The cloud by day, by night the glowing fire,
      That led her on to do her Father's will!"

    DELPHINA E. MENDENHALL, "_To Sybil Jones._"


After the return from the East a few more days were left for Sybil
Jones to tell the same story to men and women nearer her own home. Her
frail body had carried her to many shores, and had not given way until
she was once more among lifelong friends.

She had presented Christianity to Mohammedan women "from the standard
of equality of sex in social life, religion, and the ministry of the
word." She had entered the "gilded cages" of Eastern harems and "borne
the gospel with a sister's love to those unhappy inmates--glad tidings
which they had never heard until proclaimed by her lips." With no
relaxation of fervor, with no diminution of power, she continued to
tell those not living in communion with God that "to be
carnally-minded is death," and with the earnestness of one saving
drowning men from the depths of the sea she stretched forth her hands
and raised her touching voice to save them from a still worse death,
the wages of their sins. The series of general meetings which Friends
had just begun to hold gave her an opportunity to come before large
audiences of all denominations, of the different classes. Many who
came were unconverted; many more were in a dangerously lukewarm state;
others needed strength and comfort. To one and all she proclaimed the
great truth that whosoever liveth unto himself dieth, but "whoso hath
the Son hath life;" and to the hearts where sorrow and discouragement
and doubt dwelt she spoke of a joy for the world, an encouragement "to
press toward the mark for the prize," a faith and belief that
overcome. Over those long Maine hills, in the balmy air of autumn,
fresh from the yellow grain and mellow fruit, or creaking through the
snowdrifts of mid-winter, she and her husband, both with the same
thought uppermost, rode to sit down on the high seats of those
broad-based, low-eaved Friends' meeting-houses, and to rise again and
speak messages of healing inspired by the great Physician. She loved
to live, for every day gave her one more chance to call to the unhappy
to be made happy. She loved to live, because she enjoyed the beautiful
things which God brought daily before her eyes in His book written
with His own hand. It was, too, a joy to her to be with her family, to
be a mother to her dear children, a wife to her wedded fellow-laborer,
and a friend to the many who loved her; but while she loved life she
knew enough of our God to be assured that when her "bark sank it would
be but to another sea," and that what we call death is but going from
a chrysalis life to a fulness of knowledge and a fulness of life. No
change that merely freed her of what could die and left her wholly
immortal could be terrible to her, and so she had never, in all the
days of extreme sickness which she had passed, had other thought than
that she was being kept from work. To the very last she pleaded with
her wonted earnestness: "I beseech you in Christ's stead, be ye
reconciled to God," and she loved to quote the hymn which expressed
the aspiration of her soul:

    "Oh, if _one soul_ I've pleaded with
      Meets me at God's right hand,
    My heaven will be two heavens
      In Immanuel's Land."

The thought has often been expressed that as the spiritual life of a
man or woman grows, develops, and gains complete mastery, the body
gradually takes on a new and deeper beauty; a something which had not
formerly existed shines out and hallows the face, and somewhat as the
setting sun puts over the clouds a glory which throughout all the long
sunshiny day had not been seen, so a brighter gleam comes out from a
ripened soul, and it becomes more than ever evident that the
inhabitant of the clay house had come "trailing clouds of glory from
God who is its home." This was decidedly true with her. The tall,
erect, queenly person, the large head, high forehead, deep hazel
eyes, the smile which so often played upon the lines of her
countenance,--all took a new meaning as the "light which never was on
sea or land" shone through them, proving that her "citizenship was in
heaven" and that she indeed was "a fellow-citizen of the saints." We
know not what is beyond our ken for such as she, but we believe that
He who created such a wondrous home for the mortal part has otherwhere
a proportionally magnificent domain for that which dieth not. A few
hours before she died she exclaimed in the words of the martyr
Rutherford:

    "Oh, well it is for ever,
      Oh, well for evermore,
    My nest hung in no forest
      Of all this death-doomed shore."

And on the afternoon of the 4th day of 12th month, 1873, she left the
life of toil and struggle for the life of reward.

Ellen Congdon of Providence wrote in fitting words: "I have taken
comfort in the midst of this great bereavement to the Church militant
in thinking of the rejoicing and the welcome as her ransomed spirit
took its place among the redeemed of all generations. Yet, far, far
beyond even this must have been the holy rapture with which she
realized the fulfilment of that gracious promise: 'Thine eyes shall
behold the King in His beauty, and thou shalt see the land that is
very far off.'"

The governor of the State showed his appreciation of the departed one
in the following extract from a letter to her son Richard: "Had it
been possible I should have been present at the funeral services. I
remember your mother from my boyhood, and received the news of her
death with profound sorrow. She exemplified the true Christian
character in a degree rarely equalled in this life; indeed, she has
always appeared to me more in the heavenly than the earthly. In her
death the Christian religion has lost one of its brightest ornaments
and noblest defenders. Yours is the priceless consolation which the
gospel and the remembrance of a life so full of noble deeds afford.
Any words of mine would be poor and weak, but I cannot forbear
conveying to you and your much-esteemed father, whom I have known and
honored for many years, my heartiest sympathy. Yours very truly,

                                            "SIDNEY PERHAM."

Her funeral, held in the Friends' meeting-house, was attended by a
large company of friends, relatives, and neighbors. The citizens of
the town came in large numbers to look for the last time on the one
whom they loved and reverenced. Harriet Jones, Samuel Taylor, Sarah
Tobey, and others spoke feelingly. "All hearts were moved," says one
who was present, "as our venerable and highly esteemed friend Eli
Jones arose, controlling the feelings of a heart filled with sorrow,
and revealed what had heretofore been kept by him--viz. the
manifestation of divine power that had attended her mission while they
travelled in foreign lands; also the blessing following her labors
during the past few months in attending some one hundred and forty
meetings, principally in her own State, in which she appeared like a
reaper gathering the harvest."

It is never well for us to speak over-highly of any one or of the
service of any one. Power speaks for itself. We spend no breath of
praise on the might of Niagara or the majesty of Mont Blanc. God has
made them so that they tell us themselves continually of their
grandeur. In like manner, the character and work of his human
creatures tell to their generation and the following ones their
strength and worth without the aid of man's voice.

What Sybil Jones did and said has been felt and has made its
impression in the world, and no word which now might be spoken could
add to what she really accomplished. For sixty-five years she went
about doing what she seemed to have been sent to do. She was under no
shackles of creed, but she had a faith which anchored her; she built
on a foundation which had already been laid, and she wasted none of
her energy seeking answers to unnecessary questions. Her whole heart
was in her work, and nothing held her back in her desire to go on
herself to perfection and to call others thereto. The power of her
spiritual discernment was shown in numerous cases where she told
minutely the state and feeling of some before her, and she felt out
wonderfully the proper course for her to take. She seemed to grow
stronger as she engaged in a new field of work, and not unusually she
left her bed of sickness to undertake an arduous journey for an
absence of one or two years. She went from Ireland to Norway on a
couch, and there endured remarkable hardships, but grew stronger as
she worked, and was almost daily before the people for the next six
months. She had a striking influence over unprincipled and dangerous
men, and she never hesitated to go alone among the greatest outcasts.
The swearing sailors on the ship for Liberia grew more gentle as they
knew her, and she walked fearlessly into the cell of one of the worst
prisoners in the United States: he was touched to tears and blessed
the day that brought her to him.

As a minister she was especially gifted in exhortation and prayer, but
she knew the Bible, and she knew experimentally the meaning of its
promises and commandments. Her use of language was remarkable: every
thought she wished to express was clothed richly, every truth was made
clear to her hearers, and no words were wasted. God gave her a voice,
not like Milton's, "whose sound was like the sea," but soft as the
wind in the trees and strong to reach the farthest seats. There was a
music in it which charmed, and a reserved power and volume which she
could use when the occasion called for it.

The good people in the south of France still say, "She seemed to us
like an angel;" which shows how her earnest tones and kind deeds
impressed these simple-hearted people, who saw too few that loved to
feed the sheep and the lambs. Her active work in the ministry began
with her first visit to the provinces. Between that time and her death
she went as a herald through her own land; to Liberia, to England,
Ireland, Norway, Denmark, Germany, Switzerland, and France; to
Scotland, Greece, Egypt, and the Holy Land. Few women, if any, before
her had been called to so many and so widely separated peoples. By
every race and nation she was kindly received, and she was enabled to
speak to them boldly and with such power that the lives of those who
heard her were noticeably changed. Standing often where woman never
stood before to speak, she lovingly urged the multitudes of ignorant,
unsaved hearers to come to the Lord for teaching and salvation. The
effect of her live words on those who had heard only formal preaching
can hardly be described. When in her most earnest attitude, she was
calm in her pleading, avoiding all that was sensational and speaking
simply to reach the heart. There has never been a more striking
instance of reliance on the divine Voice in the soul. There were
numerous occasions in her life when not only all her friends, but
skilful physicians, concurred in advising her to rest her exhausted
body when she felt work immediately before her. In every case she
replied, "I have this work to do now; I cannot take another course;"
and in no case was she mistaken. Once at least she went from her own
home to the train on a couch, but the results of the visit could leave
no one in doubt from whence came the command for her to go forth.

Like Madame Guyon, it was her unceasing desire to bring her individual
will into full harmony with the will of God, and like her she sought
earnestly to distinguish minutely between her own impulses and the
promptings of the Spirit of God; not unlike Madame Guyon, she knew her
place to be where she could work actively among men for their
enlightenment. No small part of her work was with soldiers and
prisoners. Following the example of Elizabeth Fry, she went where sin
had made the deepest stains. Not only did the inmates of wards and
cells become gentler as she talked to them, but they regarded this
world and the next from a different standpoint when she had finished
speaking to them of the one hope which she had come to bring them.

As she understood the New Testament, and as she interpreted the
whisperings within her, it seemed clear that the disciple of Christ
must devote himself or herself to uplifting a larger or smaller
portion of the human race, the radius of influence depending on the
number of talents received--that each servant's work might be
different, but each one must get into an attitude to _find_ his task,
and then all must work to produce fruit for the same harvest-home.

The following is quoted from Harriet Beecher Stowe in her _Sunny
Memories of Foreign Lands_:

"C. had been with Joseph Sturge during the afternoon to a meeting of
the Friends, and heard a discourse from Sybil Jones, one of the most
popular of their female preachers. Sybil Jones is a native of
Brunswick, Maine. She and her husband, being both preachers, have
travelled extensively in the prosecution of various philanthropic and
religious enterprises.

"In the evening Joseph Sturge said that she had expressed a desire to
see me. Accordingly, I went with him to call upon her, and found her
in the family of two aged Friends, surrounded by a circle of the same
denomination. She is a woman of great delicacy of appearance,
betokening very frail health. I am told that she is most of her time
in a state of extreme suffering from neuralgic complaints. There was a
mingled expression of enthusiasm and tenderness in her face which was
very interesting. She had had, according to the language of her sect,
a concern on her mind for me. To my mind there is something peculiarly
interesting about the primitive simplicity and frankness with which
the members of this body express themselves. She desired to caution me
against the temptations of too much flattery and applause, and against
the worldliness which might beset me in London. Her manner of
addressing me was like that of one who is commissioned with a message
which must be spoken with plainness and sincerity. After this the
whole circle knelt, and she offered prayer. I was somewhat painfully
impressed with her evident fragility of body compared with the
enthusiastic workings of her mind. In the course of the conversation
she inquired if I was going to Ireland. I told her yes, that was my
intention. She begged that I would visit the western coast, adding,
with great feeling, '_It was the miseries which I saw there which have
brought my health to the state it is in._'

"She had travelled extensively in the Southern States, and had in
private conversation been able very fully to bear witness against
slavery, and had never been heard with unkindness. The whole incident
afforded me matter for reflection. The calling of women to distinct
religious vocations, it appears to me, was a part of primitive
Christianity; has been one of the most efficient elements of power in
the Romish Church; obtained among the Methodists in England; and has
in all these cases been productive of great good. The deaconesses whom
the apostle mentioned with honor in his epistle, Madame Guyon in the
Romish Church, Mrs. Fletcher, Elizabeth Fry, are instances to show
how much may be done for mankind by women _who feel themselves
impelled to a special religious vocation_. The example of the Quakers
is a sufficient proof that acting upon this idea does not produce
discord and domestic disorder. No people are more remarkable for
quietness and propriety of deportment and for household order and
domestic excellence. By the admission of this liberty the world is now
and then gifted with a woman like Elizabeth Fry, while the family
state loses none of its security and sacredness. No one in our day
charges the ladies of the Quaker sect with boldness or indecorum, and
they have demonstrated that even public teaching, when performed under
the influence of an overpowering devotional spirit, does not interfere
with feminine propriety and modesty. The fact is, that the number of
women to whom this vocation is given will always be comparatively few:
they are, and generally will be, the exceptions, and the majority of
the religious world, ancient and modern, has decided that these
exceptions are to be treated with reverence."

John G. Whittier writes in his poem, the "Meeting:"

    "Welcome the silence all unbroken,
    Nor less the words of fitness spoken--
    Such golden words as hers for whom
    Our autumn flowers have just made room,

         *    *    *    *    *

    Or haply hers whose pilgrim tread
    Is in the paths where Jesus led;
    Who dreams her childhood's Sabbath dream
    By Jordan's willow-shaded stream,
    And of the hymns or hope and faith
    Sung by the monks of Nazareth

    Hears pious echoes in the call
    To prayer from Moslem minarets fall,
    Repeating where His works were wrought
    The lessons that her Master taught--
    Of whom an elder Sibyl gave
    The prophecies of Cumæ's cave."

In conclusion, it will be proper to insert the following brief sketch
from one who knew her most intimately:

"Naturally extremely timid, when duty called her fearlessness was
wonderful. With nerves so sensitive that the closing of a door would
often startle her, in God's service she looked calmly upon death and
danger in every form. Though much and acceptably before the public,
the truly feminine graces ever stood forth prominently in her
character. With her own hands she often performed the duties of her
household, always entertaining much company, not only from neighboring
States, but from foreign lands; guided to manhood and womanhood five
children, and soothed the last hours of many of her kindred. With a
bodily frame very much enfeebled by a complication of diseases, she
was constantly being reminded of the uncertainty of her life, and ever
lived nearer to heaven than earth. Her mind was frequently absent, and
when called back it was found to have wandered after some poor soul
who had not yet received the 'good news' which her life was
consecrated to publish. So little did she notice the landmarks of this
earthly journey that the writer of this can affirm that scenes and
places through which she had passed a score of times were ever new and
unfamiliar to her absent gaze. When engaged in missionary labors her
faith that God would care for her and hers was deep and constant.
God's commands were her sole guide of her life; when these reached her
she prepared to obey them without a thought of the means. Her
invariable remark was, 'I am the King's daughter: the gold and silver
are mine, and the cattle on a thousand hills.' Before her
faith-inspired energy every difficulty vanished. She left the aged and
enfeebled mother or the babe at her breast, committing them to the
Master in child-like trust. Through all she clung with the relentless
grasp of an abiding faith to the promises of her prayer-answering God,
and if ever a cloud came over her way she remained on her knees until
she saw its 'silver lining.' It may, then, with truth be said of this
woman that her leading aim on earth was the winning of souls to Jesus
Christ of Nazareth, the staff on which she leaned the faith of
Abraham, and prayer her 'vital breath.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

There are a few extracts from some of the letters written by Sybil
Jones very near the end of her life which will be read with interest,
since they set forth the progress of the active religious work which
Friends in New England were just beginning at that time, and also give
expression to her faith in regard to such work with reference to the
necessity of an abiding defence against everything which might hinder
permanent blessing.

She writes, 1st mo. 31, 1870, to her dear friend S. T.:

"I agree with thee that a revival is greatly needed, and that one is
really begun and is prospering is cause for grateful songs of
thanksgiving and praise to Him who causeth the outgoings of this
brighter dawning to rejoice. Let our united prayers go up to the
'throne of God and the Lamb' that upon all the glory there may be a
defence. That this glorious visitation will have its temptations we
must know, for whenever the Spirit of Christ begins to work for the
salvation of souls through the blood of the Lamb, Satan presents
himself to defeat by various stratagems, if possible, the blessed
work. My faith is, however, that the Most High will protect his own
children and his own work, and cause it to prosper and spread
abundantly. The bow of promises spans the whole. There is a great
awakening in these parts; many old sinners are turning to the Lord and
speaking of His great love. Young people too are bringing their early
offerings to Him, for which my heart rejoices greatly."

_9th, 22d, 1873._ She writes from Oak Grove Seminary in Maine: "My
dearest S., I am still here, and have been so ill I thought I might
not see my dear sister any more below or reach my dear little home, my
earthly tent; but my gracious Lord has led me up from 'the crossing'
again thus far, and I rejoice in His will, whatever it may be. I have
reached this place on my way home, and hope to be able to go in a few
days if the Lord will.

"Thou may have heard of the wonderful outpouring of the Holy Spirit at
the general meeting in Winthrop. I attended only one session, but I
never was more happy. Peace and glory reigned around while poor
sinners were coming to Jesus. The gospel full and free and in
apostolic simplicity was preached, and great was the company of those
who heard it and were moved by its power through the Spirit.

"I cannot tell thee much now. I was laid aside with _my Beloved_, and
oh the richness and fulness of His love to His weak child! I seemed to
enjoy all that was passing in that wonderful tent where three thousand
were present on First day. Many from city and country said they never
heard such a powerful gospel message before. People are calling in
every direction for the Friends to come and hold meetings. Let us be
instant in prayer, ready to do our part in the vineyard of the Lord."

_4th mo. 20, 1873._ Not many months before her own departure she
writes of her mother's death in a letter to S. T., headed "Travellers'
Home:" "I have been watching a sweet loving mother to the banks of the
stream where all of my own family save my lonely self had passed
before. I felt sure she would see the beautiful summer-time on earth
no more; of this she too was aware, and made all needful arrangements
for the event to her desirable. She appeared more and more angelic in
expression and features as the time drew near to leave us. Her prayers
and exhortations at the family altar were offered in great
self-abasement, but wonderfully beautiful and fervent. The last night
was a glorious time to her: though in great suffering, her face
appeared so youthful and fair, beaming with such serenity, that all
could bear witness to her victory through the blood of the Lamb. Her
last sentence only will I mention. Near the close she exclaimed with
both cold hands uplifted: 'Glory! glory! glory! I see the angels!'
after this only the word 'glory,' faintly uttered could be heard."

The last public religious service of this dear Friend was at Windham,
Maine, during a general meeting held there. Of this last visit a
Friend who was present writes:

"First day evening, 11th mo. 3d, 1873, to a crowded house she preached
for half an hour from the text, 'If I will that he tarry till I come,
what is that to thee? Follow thou me.' As the meeting was to close,
she stood and most impressively repeated a farewell hymn, dwelling
upon the lines, 'Farewell, poor sinner.' Pausing, she three times
repeated these lines. None of us ever listened to a voice of such
melody: it is indescribable--so solemn the message, so full of
entreaty the tone.

"Her husband attended meeting at Deering on Fourth day following, but
she remained in the house. Her messages to individuals in our
neighborhood are treasured as coming from one so near the border as to
be freighted with heavenly sanctity.

"From report of quarterly meeting committee I quote: 'We cannot close
this report and do justice to appointment and the precious memory of
Sybil Jones (since gone to the eternal rest) without referring to her
attendance at the general meeting in company with her husband. It was
a great blessing to us to be recipients of this closing labor of her
peculiarly devoted life. Many can bear witness to the heavenly
expression of her countenance, her calmness, earnestness, yet
tenderness of spirit, and the unusual unction which attended her
ministrations as she pleaded _with_ and _for_ the erring and labored
to restore the waste places of our Zion."




CHAPTER XVI.

_ALONE AT HOME._

    "Nor blame I Death because he bare
      The use of virtue out of earth:
      I know translated human worth
    Will bloom to profit otherwhere."--_In Memoriam._


It need not be told, and it could not, how the loss of his wife
affected Eli Jones, already venerable with age. Those only who have
borne a like sorrow know the depth of the wound. The strength of his
character and the weight of his love were never shown more fully than
in the first years of his widowed life. War had taken his first-born,
his sons were at their work in the world, his eldest daughter was
married, and the youngest daughter alone was still with him. Though
sixty-six years of age, he was yet strong, and knew that much more
work was before him if his life should be spared. There was no time
given him to rest. Not his to question the ways of Providence, but to
work while the day lasted. He could turn his face to no field where he
was not reminded of her who had diligently stood by his side, and his
loneliness gave a new power to his words. As Tennyson of his departed
friend, he could say:

    "Far off thou art, but ever nigh;
      I have thee still, and I rejoice;
      I prosper circled by thy voice;
    I shall not lose thee though I die."

For the first few years after the separation he was generally engaged
near home. The duties of farm-work filled up the spaces between the
monthly, quarterly, and general meetings which he attended. The little
black horse that all his townsmen knew so well grew very familiar with
the winding roads to Vassalboro', Brooks, St. Albans, Manchester, and
other near-lying towns. "Uncle Eli has come" made all who had gathered
at the meeting-house rejoice, and, whether the subject was peace,
temperance, or salvation, he spoke strong words to stir the listeners.

During all his life he has loved to till the soil; trees seem to be
near friends of his. Lowell is

                "Midway to believe
    A tree among his far progenitors,
    Such sympathy is his with all the race."

Eli Jones hardly claims relationship with the birches, but they are
his close friends, and he has had many happy hours working among his
trees. Perhaps he never was a farmer such as the editors of
agricultural journals would extol, and it is certain that the hilly
fields, with here and there a ledge of rock, in his farm at Dirigo
would never have allowed him to accumulate wealth, even if his work
had been exclusively there; but he felt the nobility of the calling.
There was no yoke of bondage to the soil over him, and he got nearer
Nature's heart as he planted, as he dug, and as he harvested. Those
who exhort to a higher spiritual life can never know too much of the
mysteries of animal and plant life; they can never be too conversant
with the trials and pains which daily toil brings to those to whom
they preach. Paul could touch hearts when he appealed to tentmakers;
Peter had an unwonted power when fishermen were before him; and he who
holds up hands hardened by hoe and spade will gladly be heard by those
who have left the oxen in the furrow to listen to the gospel. Slavery
to work narrows the mind, as any slavery does, but diligence in some
business will never lessen the depth of a true Christian or weaken the
influence of an endowed minister. Eli Jones has always been loved by
all the animals in his house and barn, for there is true philosophy in
the line, "For Mary loved the lamb, you know." His sheep would come
from all corners of the pasture when he came to their feeding-place,
and often he took his cane and walked out to give them salt and to
learn their ways. Sheep that are loved grow best, and his flock was
proof of it. After work he sat under one of the large maples near the
house, and while resting, if alone, carefully studied the higher and
lower laws of the birds over his head and the insects at his feet. I
do not believe he ever knowingly stepped on a worm or beetle, and no
life of any kind was ever willingly destroyed by him. He could mow on
Fifth day until time for meeting, and then hay-making, and the
possibility of showers were out of the realm of his thought, for there
was a higher work which needed an undivided mind.

Nothing inanimate has interested him more than fossils and geological
specimens. He made a large collection of them, and whenever an unusual
stone showed itself under his hoe, it was examined. The perfection of
the minute shells, and consequently of the long-dead animals that once
dwelt in them, deeply impressed him. The variety of trees and flowers
which were growing in his garden and grounds astonished those who were
acquainted only with the birches, beeches, maples, pines, hemlocks,
the ordinary growth of the Maine woods; but he was delighted to see
trees of other climes flourish in the hard Northern soil of his
fields. His apples, pears, and grapes have reached the heart of many a
boy who has wondered why his father has always lived contented with
"Bitter Sweets" when "Early Harvests" are so good and easy to raise;
and an invitation to spend a day in this garden of the Hesperides was
not soon to be forgotten; and in fact it was a day of growth in the
boy's better nature.

There was something still more gratifying than such an invitation: it
was to sit in the "South Meeting-house" when "little David" or Samuel
or Joseph was the text. Others might instruct the heads of the
meeting, but little eyes, sometimes heavy with sleep, opened and grew
larger as the shepherd on the hills of Bethlehem had his arm nerved by
the strength of the Lord or as Samuel cried, "Speak, Lord, for thy
servant heareth." He drew pictures of those far-off scenes until a
panorama seemed unrolled and young and old saw the mighty characters
of the early dispensation working before them; and it was not long
before a new light came over those same hills and new songs filled the
air: "Rejoice, for unto you is born, this day, in the city of David a
Saviour, which is Christ the Lord."

During these days of farm-life Eli was often chosen to fill the
different town offices. As "supervisor of schools" he used to hear the
geography lessons and make the map look so large and real that the
scholars felt that it in fact represented solid earth. Then he was
sure to ask the whole school some question which would start a train
of new thoughts, and he was not likely to leave the school-house
without setting forth in a novel way the need of learning how to spell
and the mistake of trying greater fields of work before this one was
conquered.

It was in the "town-meeting--the old "New England town-meeting"--that
he showed his peculiar tact and strength. The men of the town were
there to settle the knotty question of "new roads," "improved
schools," "care of the poor," and a long list of similar points. It is
always a question with boys "how they make Presidents," and it is no
less so how they make "selectmen and supervisors;" and on these great
days young statesmen were being taught there. The speakers for and
against the different articles in the "warrant," stood up on benches
and spoke. A moderator was appointed who kept order and decided
difficult points. The younger, non-voters, were surprised to hear such
eloquence and to see such weighty matters handled by men whom they
knew only as great woodcutters or haymakers; but it really seemed to
them that another Demosthenes must be in the midst of them when Eli
Jones began to argue down the weak schemes and prop up the wise plans
for public improvement. At least one listener remembers how one
important point was settled. The question had been discussed whether
the town should pay up its "war debt" and by taking on itself a double
tax for one year throw off the burden of a heavy tax each year to pay
interest-money. It had been decided affirmatively, but after the
meeting was over and the citizens had gone home and talked with their
wives, it began to seem to many that too great a step had been taken,
and a call was issued for a new meeting to rescind the vote. There was
much feeling, and the signs of a strongly divided camp were evident.
The stir indicated that the question was momentous. A plain but strong
argument was given to rescind the vote on the ground that it would be
wiser to divide the amount and take a number of years to pay it than
to impoverish the poor farmers by forcing such a tax upon them at one
time. It may have been because the writer was very young and
impressible, but the reply seemed to him masterly and worthy of a much
greater occasion. Not a word was lost; the answer was brief, and its
burden was that it was time to be free from the stigma of this debt,
which either those present or their children must pay, and that if
every citizen would play the man and do his duty now the debt would be
blotted out, and easily. A vote was taken, and by a large majority it
was agreed to leave the next generation free from debt by paying it at
once; which was done.

The work of a man for the bettering of his own town is not
unimportant, though it may seem so when we consider the greater fields
of usefulness. He who has roused his neighbors and helped them find a
better way of educating their sons and daughters has accomplished a
work of immense importance. If all the towns and villages were taken
care of, the State would soon rest on a sure foundation, and he is a
skilful physician who labors to _heal_ the troubles in the towns which
supply _life_ to the cities. Eli Jones has always said that the great
aim must ever be to get the individual home in a proper condition. It
is not possible to show how much he quietly did in the years he spent
at Dirigo, but certainly it was time well used, and we need not lament
that he was "hemmed in" by county lines. What he did is poorly and
briefly recorded here, but it is written imperishably somewhere, not
infrequently on the impressible hearts of men.




CHAPTER XVII.

_LATER VISITS TO THE EAST._


The later visits of Eli Jones to Palestine and their object have
already been spoken of. With an accurate knowledge of the land and its
customs, as well as of the needs of its people, he was especially
adapted to taking a prominent part in directing the work of education
there. He has always had a faculty for raising funds, and, having been
especially successful in gathering money for building and necessary
expenses, the time seemed to have come for opening a boy's
training-home on Mount Lebanon. It had seemed best to organize a
meeting of the Society of Friends at Brummana, so that he went in 1876
to assist in person the accomplishment of these two designs.

He sailed alone to Liverpool, and then with Alfred Lloyd Fox, who had
accompanied him on his first visit, and Henry Newman, proceeded to
Beirut, and thence to Brummana.

They rode on horseback up Lebanon, and not far from Brummana beheld a
most touching sight. The children of the school stood at a bend in the
road, each carrying a bouquet of flowers, which they held aloft as
their aged benefactor approached, and all these _Syrian maidens_
together gave their greeting in English: "Welcome, our dear friends!"
This simple, sincere manifestation of affection deeply impressed the
venerable messenger of Christ and cheered his heart. It was like the
loving welcome from his own children upon nearing his own home.

A winter of work was passed pleasantly at the mission and among the
natives. In company with Theophilus Waldmeier, the American and
English messengers visited Rustin Pasha, the governor of Lebanon, who
not only received them courteously and gave them much assistance, but
has ever shown himself a good friend of the Friends' mission.

Eli Jones has had the good fortune to win the favor of those high in
authority, and he has used well his opportunities to impress the
dignitaries of those lands. On the way from Joppa to Jerusalem he was
in the same hotel with the governor of Palestine. The latter, hearing
that a missionary of the Society of Friends was in the house, wished
to see him. They met and talked together as friends. The governor
showed himself a man of wide culture and liberal views, believing in
the elevation of woman as a potent means of civilization, his own
daughters being students of science and literature. He had a clear
conception of American civilization, and understood the position and
history of Friends, showing much interest in their work at Ramallah.
As they parted he asked with much feeling that his aged American
friend would pray for him and Palestine.

Again, in 1882, Eli Jones sailed for England on his way to the Holy
Land, to be present at the opening of the girls' training-home and to
obtain a legal transference of the mission to the Society of Friends.
Charles M. Jones of Winthrop, Me., was his valuable companion. They
were met in Liverpool by Alfred Fox, who, though not able to attend
them on this journey, went as far as Marseilles to see them well on
their way. They landed in Joppa, and soon after their arrival were
invited by the Episcopalian clergyman to come to his house to meet and
address a little company. They found a large number assembled, and Eli
Jones was told that he might address them in English, with the
assurance of being perfectly understood; so that here, in that ancient
city where Peter was taught to regard as clean all cleansed by God,
the walls of division were again taken down and a minister of the
Quakers preached the gospel in the English language to an assembly of
Episcopalians.

On landing at Beirut they visited the American school in that city,
and were asked to address the scholars, which they did. After the
exercises were over the lady in charge of the school, finding from
their conversation that they were Friends, said with much surprise, "I
thought you were Presbyterians." They were warmly welcomed at the
Mount Lebanon Mission-school, and were occupied there and at the
Ramallah mission until the spring of 1883.

On their return, Alfred Fox stood on the wharf at Marseilles to greet
them. He did not leave them until their steamer sailed from Liverpool,
and there waved them a long farewell. His death not long after removed
from this world a grand Christian gentleman, the dearest friend of Eli
Jones's later life.

The fourth journey of the latter to Palestine successfully
accomplished, the faithful servant of God returned to the familiar
scenes of his own home, not to seek the rest of one who puts the armor
off, but to spend the last years which God's goodness had given him in
declaring with the zeal of vigorous manhood the business of soldiers
commissioned by the Prince of peace. Each year which puts its weight
upon him lessens the probability of his re-seeing Lebanon and
Jerusalem, but no spot except that which eighty years have made almost
sacred to him as home has so many memories and attractions touching
his heart. When he went from home bowed with age to undertake his last
visit some one said, "I fear thou wilt never come back to us." He
replied, "Lebanon's top is as near heaven as my native China is."

He has twice visited the missions in person, and each time found work
for three or four months. He has always been greatly loved by those
for whom the work is being done. Being asked once the reason for his
success with these Arabs, he replied, "Because I am of the people. I
go down to their condition, but do not stay there; I endeavor to bring
them up." They are very strong in their affections, and dislikes as
well, and they are exceedingly keen to see their real benefactors. Eli
Jones experiences his greatest pleasure taking these children around
him and teaching them in his characteristic way, while they love him
as a good father. In the answers to his questions he was often
surprised by the originality of the little pupils. One day as he was
talking to a class of girls he asked where the Jordan rises;
immediately came the answer. Again, "Where does it end?"--"In the Dead
Sea." "And what becomes of the water, as the Dead Sea has no outlet?"
There was a long silence, when a little Arab girl replied, in a
simple, beautiful metaphor, "The sun drinks it up." On one occasion he
found the children sitting on the floor to be taught; he at once
ordered seats for the room, though he was told they would not use
them. He replied, "We will see; if you get them from the floor upon
good seats, you have raised them so much from their low condition."
When he next went to the room he found them proudly sitting on their
new seats. One little girl who could speak English came over by his
side and said, "We thank you for these seats." When he was about to
come back and to separate from them they stood round him with tears in
their eyes to wave him a farewell.

The questions are often asked, "Is the gain worth the cost? Does the
improvement correspond to the outlay and effort?" There is but one
answer. These Druse boys and girls are eager to be taught, not only to
read and write, but to understand the story and teachings of Christ.
They go from the school entirely different persons, and they are
wholly unwilling to go back to their unchristian manners of life. They
are capable of becoming good scholars, and many of them are ready to
teach others. The character of the natives around Mount Lebanon has
completely changed, while those being trained are now in a condition
to exert an elevating influence on those about them.

Mission-work, like all other work, must consent to be tested by its
fruits. The work of Friends on Lebanon and at Ramallah will stand this
test well.

In a letter to his friend S. F. T., Eli Jones writes to express his
feeling of loneliness without his wonted companion, and the nature of
the work being done in the Holy Land at the time of his third visit
there in 1876:

                                  BRUMMANA, 1st mo. 8, 1876.

     While my fellow-travellers and Th. Waldmeier have gone to a
     distant village to attend to matters of business, I have been
     left to my own reflections, and I have in an unusual manner
     missed the sympathy and the words of cheer in times of trial that
     I was sure to receive from her who has been called up higher
     before me. Her words were as balm to my troubled breast, but now
     I plod on alone. My life would be too sad and weary to be borne
     did I not trust that an Eye of compassion beholds me here even as
     when in my native land surrounded by loved friends.

     We left England on the 9th of 11th mo., and spent several days in
     France attending ten meetings in that country; then embarking at
     Marseilles for Alexandria, where we spent a few days meeting old
     acquaintances and attending to what seemed called for. Again we
     went on board ship, and next day came to Port Said at the mouth
     of the Suez Canal, the morning after we were in Joppa. Here we
     visited the institution under the instruction of Jane Arnot, a
     woman of _great faith_ and of _much works_, who has a school of
     sixty girls. We found her occupying a new house erected on the
     very spot where our tent was pitched a few years ago, and where
     we had a meeting one First day afternoon with the people of
     Joppa.

     We reached Beirut the 31st of 12th mo., and the next day came to
     Brummana, where we received a warm welcome. Hanne Ferach, my
     little Bethlehem girl, rushed forward and grasped the hand of her
     old friend with the cordiality of a loving daughter; also several
     of the citizens came to bid us welcome to their town. All this
     was unexpected, and, to speak honestly, it moved our hearts and
     was a delightful ending of a long journey.

     We are much pleased with the work begun here. On First day our
     meeting frequently numbers over one hundred, the Bible meeting in
     the middle of the week over thirty.

     In the room where I am setting a teachers' meeting is going
     forward preparatory to the labors to-morrow, which will be the
     first of the week. Sitting around the table are ten preachers and
     teachers; two of these are female. Their conversation is all
     Greek to me, but it is very interesting to see them arming for
     their work from such an armory.

     The Sabbath-school numbers sixty, while there are six schools in
     operation through the week, reaching at least two hundred and
     thirty children; all these are emphatically Bible-schools.




CHAPTER XVIII.

_AS A FRIEND._

     "Be ye complete in Him."

     "God's own hand must lay the axe of inward crucifixion
     unsparingly at the root of the natural life; God in Christ,
     operating in the person of the Holy Ghost, must be the principle
     of inward inspiration _moment_ by _moment_, the crucifier of
     every wrong desire and purpose, the Author of every right and
     holy purpose, the Light and Life of the soul."--UPHAM.


Eli Jones was a birthright member of the Society of Friends, and as
far back as there is any record the family had been a Friends' family,
so that he inherited an inclination to the manners and views of the
Society; and it was as much expected of him that he would make these
views his own as it was that he would be a worthy son of his parents
and grandparents. Quakerism was the air which a Friend's child
breathed seventy-five years ago, and it was a poor child that longed
for another atmosphere. It was a startling revelation to a boy that
there were people in the world who said _you_ to one person, and it
required an explanation.

Eli had little opportunity of reading the lives of the Friends of
former times, and he had no way of finding out the "philosophy of
Quakerism," but his father and mother and the whole circle of his
connections had a definite idea of what they believed, and their
lives were more teaching than many books would have been. The
different meetings were regularly attended by the young members, and
they early became accustomed to the ways of doing the necessary
business. He learned to respect the body which transacted its business
so quietly and orderly, and which had such a loving and successful
plan for reaching the state and standing of the different members.

The monthly readings of the "Queries" placed each soul in the silent
confessional before its Lord, while the general "Answers" gave
opportunity for efficient counsel. It was a living Church, and its
light shone before men. There were excellent examples of pure
Christian character in the Society at China--ministers, elders, and
members who would deeply impress the young, who thought of no other
course than following in the steps of their predecessors. The quiet
strength and sweetness of the best members of the Society, their
guilelessness and sincerity, have had great weight in holding young
men, and have done what austere teaching could never have done. The
call to confess Christ, as they proclaimed it, was also a call to a
higher manhood and nobler living.

Eli Jones early loved Friends, and his love has continually augmented.
He has done his work in the Society, going out on his own various
missions each time with its sanction; and he has experienced fully the
help which comes from the united and loving support of the Church at
home. His life has been widely useful in great measure because he was
a Friend, for the work he has done could properly have been done only
in Friends' way, and he could never have succeeded under the
restrictions of any other church organization. He was qualified to be
a Friend minister, but he was not adapted to be one of any other
denomination.

About forty years ago, as he was beginning to preach, there appeared
in New England a new phase of thought. Its centre was at Concord,
Mass., and its adherents were called _Transcendentalists_. They held,
among other things, that to really know man must have something in him
which transcends human knowledge or the knowledge of the senses. In
order to know truth a light must shine into man's mind from the Source
of light, and who ever would know himself, the world and the Supreme
Being must have a God-given teacher in his own breast; but these men
maintained that this was a _natural_ endowment of the human mind--a
wonderful gift, but given in the _same way_ as memory. The difference
between Transcendentalism and Quakerism has been thought slight; it
is, however, immense. The Society of Friends has never believed that
man by _nature_ has any power or light within him capable of
satisfying his longings or of gaining salvation for his soul. While
Friends do not lose sight of the facts that Christ the Son of God came
to be a perfect ensample for us; that He came to give us life, and to
give it more abundantly; that He is the Light of the world; that the
true follower of Christ should strive to be Christ-like, to come up to
"the full stature of Christ;" and that there can be no compromise with
any sin, but a gradual growth in firm character, high manliness, a
daily striving for sincerity and purity,--their great theme for the
comfort of a lost world has been that there is life in the acceptance
of Christ; that there is health through our abiding union in Him, and
thenceforth growth and development by virtue of our oneness with Him
whose blood cleanses and whose Spirit quickens. Manliness and high
morality, necessary graces of the Christian, have been attainable by
all nations and all ages to a higher or lower degree. "_Jesus Christ
came into the world to save sinners_," and all men of every degree are
there included. Felt necessary in all ages, foretold in types and by
inspired prophets, and heralded by messengers from heaven, at length,
in the fulness of time, the Saviour came. He came not to bring a creed
or bonds or forms: He came to bring salvation, freedom, spirituality.
He came to publish a new kingdom, which could be entered only through
Him. He finished His work fully, and, about to depart, He promised to
"pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter
(strengthener), that He may abide with you for ever, even the Spirit
of truth; whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth Him not,
neither knoweth Him: but ye know Him; for he dwelleth with you, and
shall be in you;" having said before, "Verily, verily, I say unto you,
He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also; and
_greater works shall he do; because I go unto my Father_;" "Howbeit,
when the Spirit of truth is come, He will guide you into all the
truth;" "That was the true Light, which lighteth every man that cometh
into the world." Whoever believes the truth of the gospel record to
its fullest extent, and actually accepts salvation through Christ,
becomes not only a better man, but a new man; he will live henceforth
not for this world, but for that which is to come; he will conquer
and throw aside all his besetting sins; and he will be a "living
epistle" publishing the greatness of the good news to all others:
furthermore, no work for his Lord will seem to be too great to be
undertaken, for the promise is, "greater things shall ye do; for I go
unto my Father."

Now, Eli Jones while a young man accepted his Saviour and experienced
this new birth, and, seeking first the kingdom of God, he has not
ceased to labor for the greatest possible bettering of the world.
This, he believed, could be best done by spreading a knowledge of
Christ and by endeavoring to bring about a literal fulfilment of His
teaching. Christ, the source of life, the source of light, and a
perfect example to be followed, has been his theme. Peace, total
abstinence, and high education came in course as proper causes for him
to uphold. He has always believed in supreme guidance, and before
undertaking work has waited until the inward ear heard the voice, and
so his going forth has been blessed. His whole life testifies that he
has not deceived himself, and that he has not worked for his own
material gain. He has always stood against formalism and spoken for
spirituality, and he has wished for life to so abound that formality
in any way could not exist. He has felt that all Christ's devoted
followers must in some way, by life or voice, obey the command given
to the first apostles: "Go ye into all the world, and preach the
gospel to every creature;" and the message which he has carried has
always been, "Ye must be born again." The equality of man and woman
and the equality of all men and all women, equality of worth before
the Creator, has made him earnest to gain for woman her _real rights_,
and he has felt the necessity of raising in the social scale all who
have been bound down in any degree by the bonds of prejudice.

Points of doctrine have been little discussed by him, for he has felt
called to live and preach the gospel, the same tidings which Paul went
to Macedonia to declare--not to discuss and argue in regard to
questions which can be settled only when we enter "the land which is
very far off." There are some things which must be clearly fixed,
great cardinal truths on which to be wrong is to be wholly wrong; but
a broad spiritual interpretation of the whole Bible, by the aid of the
Holy Spirit, gives any seeking man enough teaching on necessary points
to guide him; and Eli Jones has gladly received in addition all the
help he could receive from the _wisdom given_ to other men and women,
such as fathers, counsellors, and elders.

Penn asked, "How shall I know that a man does not obtrude his own
sense upon us as the infallible Spirit?" and he answers, "By the same
Spirit." Whatever is said contrary to the Scriptures, though the
guidance of the Spirit is professed, must be accounted a delusion.[11]
No man regrets more than Eli Jones that there are those who speak
their own words as the truth given to them, for words become lifeless
whenever the brain is allowed to speak for the Spirit, whenever any
one deceives himself and gives his own thoughts for oracles; and he
has felt that Friends, of all people, should beware of self-love and
self-will, and that the individual members should ever be ready to
receive benefit from the counsel of others. Each human being has a
special field to till in the great vineyard. He who has climbed a
height is more than ever duty bound to reach down hands of help to the
weak. The gifts differ, but it is every man's business to find out for
what he was sent, and then do the mission--do it "ever in the great
Taskmaster's eye;" do it for no reward, but for the truth's sake; and
He who sends the workmen into the field will send the basket for their
supply. Whether doing quiet work at home or more extensive work
abroad, Eli Jones has had one mind--to obey orders; and whenever he
has been free to do temporal work for his own support and for his aid
in gospel work, he has improved every opportunity, imitating the
example of the tentmaker, while Friends have generously furnished the
means for him to go out into distant fields.

  [11] _New England Discipline_, p. 14.

He has lived to see a decided change come over the Society in his own
section--a change almost universally apparent. In his early manhood
came the great separation of the "Hicksites," and he felt keenly the
want of harmony in 1840-45, when John Wilber opposed Joseph John
Gurney; but he has ever hoped that the small body of spiritually-minded
Friends would hold fast to their faith, maintaining harmony
throughout, and not provoking or exaggerating differences of opinion.
Most who grew old with him have passed away, and some with the belief
which saddened their old age that the end of their Society was near.
He has continually--and never more than in his old age--believed in
the progress of humanity; he has seen in history and in his own life
how one generation carries on the truth rejected by the former one;
and in his thoughts faith and hope have been united. He trusts that in
God's plan there is endless progress, and until something higher and
purer and more perfect than Friends' conception of Christ's work and
teaching appears the Society will be needed, and there will not be
wanting those who hold fast the excellent spiritual truths of
Quakerism, and a practical Christianity lived out with daily
circumspection in their thoughts and words and deeds. He is impressed,
as were the founders of our Society, with the truth that Christianity
is both a faith and a corresponding life. The words of his old age
have been not less acceptable and effective than those of his early
manhood, and he has not changed his message. The earnestness with
which he has pleaded for the essentials, the liberality he has shown
in regard to non-essentials, and the rounded completeness of his life
have given him a wide influence and have made him justly loved; but
his strength has always been his calm faith in Jesus Christ.




CHAPTER XIX.

_HIS PLACE AS A WORKER._

     "Quit you like men."


The people of a city or country in which is some great natural wonder
or some magnificent work of man become so accustomed to its grandeur
that only the largest-minded of them continue to appreciate its
excellence and gain culture from it. This is not true of men. A man
who has the qualifications to instruct and the power to inspire his
deemsmen will have renewed power, and will gain a stronger influence
over all of them, as age brings matured wisdom. Few greater blessings
can come to a community than to have a strong man working like leaven
in the midst of it, and few posts of honor are more to be coveted than
to be a part of all that is best in one's environment.

Eli Jones has decidedly influenced his township, and he has the
satisfaction of feeling in his old age that he is without enemies and
in possession of a numerous company of friends, the "uncle" of all who
know him. He has had the good fortune--or, better, the good
judgment--to know just what his place was. He has done each duty,
never wishing that he might have found something greater to do, and
now his services combined into one whole make a record which men of
great fame often fail to gain.

One of the best tests of a man's power is his influence over the
young. There is a time in early life when there is a longing for real
help, when a young person feels groping in the dark for the right
road, which he wants, but cannot find. Eli Jones has been at hand to
throw, by his counsel and Christian advice, light on the right path,
and many a man and woman stands to-day fixed firmly in a good place
and on a high road to a better because he spoke a good word or reached
out his hand when there was need of just that word or encouragement.

His love of education and his fondness for books have made themselves
felt. He has been one of the foremost in founding and sustaining two
schools--"Oak Grove Seminary" and the "Erskine High School." The
latter partly owed its existence to him. He has started and built up a
number of libraries, and he has wished to leave coming sons and
daughters supplied with a fountain from which to draw. Not a few of
the college graduates who have gone out from China received their
first impulses to higher aspirations from him, in one way or another.

In temperance work he has taken his part. He began to speak for total
abstinence as a boy, which has been his theme ever since, and he took
active part in securing a majority for the Prohibition amendment in
the State of Maine.

For many years he was an active member of the "Sons of Temperance,"
and as Grand Worthy Patriarch of that organization he did much
permanent good in the State. In this work he was intimately associated
with Ex-Governor Sidney Perham, Neal Dow, John Kimbal of Bangor, D.
B. Randal, the aged patriarch of the Methodist Church, and others of
the ablest advocates of the Maine law.

It was once a law of the State that the selectmen of each town should
appoint some suitable man to fill his cellar with various liquors, and
whose sole right it should be to sell such articles. For one year Eli
Jones was appointed to act as liquor-agent for the town. Strange
picture, that of a well-known Quaker minister and prominent advocate
of total abstinence holding the office of drink-dispenser to his
townsmen! It can be imagined with what feelings the toper would enter
his yard, make known his desire, and what words of advice he would
receive instead of the foaming glass.

It is needless to say that no cellar was stored that year, and during
his term of office the community abstained.

In 1852, at the time of his first visit to England and Ireland, but
few Friends in those countries had heartily espoused the cause of
total abstinence. Since that time a great change has taken place. "To
hail from Maine is _now_ no discredit to the visitor. _Then_ a
specimen from Maine was looked upon with some distrust."

It will not be out of place to refer here to his connection with the
origin of the "United Kingdom Alliance." Its essential declarations
are as follows: "1. That it is neither right nor politic for the state
to afford legal protection and sanction to any traffic or system which
tends to increase crime, to waste the national resources, to corrupt
the social habits, and to destroy the health and lives of the people.
2. That the traffic in intoxicating liquors, as common beverages, is
inimical to the true interests of individuals and destructive of the
order and welfare of society, and ought therefore to be prohibited. 3.
That the history and results of all past legislation in regard to the
liquor traffic abundantly prove that it is impossible satisfactorily
to _limit_ or _regulate_ a system so essentially mischievous in its
tendencies.... 7. That, rising above class, sectarian, or party
considerations, all good citizens should combine to procure an
enactment prohibiting the sale of intoxicating beverages, as affording
most efficient aid in removing the appalling evil of intemperance."

This was a union against intemperance on a most uncompromising
platform, and its work during the last quarter of a century has been
enormous. The simple facts of Eli Jones's connection with this
organization are as follows: As he was returning from Dublin yearly
meeting to London he found himself in company with Nathaniel Card, a
Friend of Manchester, England. Their conversation turned upon
temperance, for our friend had not been silent on this subject during
his stay in Ireland. Nathaniel Card became much interested, and wished
to take an American temperance paper, as well as to have a copy of the
Maine prohibitory law. He was given the address of Neal Dow, and a
correspondence was opened. About eighteen months after this
conversation, Eli Jones being in Manchester, three gentlemen called on
him. Nathaniel Card was one of them, who as speaker said, "We are the
officers of the British and Foreign Temperance Alliance, and whatever
results come from its formation _began_ with our conversation on our
return journey from Ireland."

Many English Friends have been connected with this organization, and
Eli Jones had the opportunity at the time of his later visits to
England to attend some of the meetings and to hear the beneficent
results of its far-reaching influence.

His work for the advancement of peace has been lifelong. He has
strained his eyes to catch glimpses of a better era, in which the
literal and spiritual teaching of Christ shall be fulfilled in a
universal brotherhood of men and nations; and he has lived to see
already "a flood of prophesying light." When over eighty years old he
was sent as a delegate to the Friends' Peace Conference at Richmond,
Indiana, in 1887, and his voice was often heard discussing with
younger men and women the wisest course for binding nations into
families by bonds of love, so that rust may dull the carnal weapons of
war,

    "And the cobweb be woven across the cannon's throat,
      To shake its threaded tears in the wind."

He has always looked with joy on the advance of the human race, and he
has had uncompromising faith in actual and triumphant progress.
Nothing has made his crowning years more bright than the thought, ever
present with him, that the good is gaining a gradual ascendency, and
that man's lot, already a happy one, is becoming more happy. He has
seen nations that have sat in darkness rising to stand in the
joy-bringing light, and he has trusted the future will bring mature
fruit. This buoyant hope has not only made his life joyous, but has
pervaded all the messages of his later years, and he has shown that
optimism which every true Christian must feel, for his Master "doeth
all things well."

He felt called above everything else to preach the gospel, but he was
sent to preach not only from the text which John the Baptist gave, but
also he has "spoken unto men to edification." He has held up the
perfect mark, the goal, "a life hid with Christ in God." Every power
of man, physical, moral, mental, spiritual, is to be developed and
expanded to its fullest extent, and then brought into strict obedience
to the will of God. We are not in our place until we yield the same
obedience to the celestial laws that we yield to the laws of
gravitation. Character--which implies integrity, purity,
unselfishness, love, patience, self-forgetfulness, and temperance--means
the truth we have received, made our own, and put in action. Hence Eli
Jones has spent his life telling all people to seek first of all the
kingdom of heaven, which is righteousness and peace and joy in the
Holy Ghost--to give their whole lives and beings to the Lord, and to
build up pure Christian characters. The strength and manliness of his
life have made his messages weighty, and the clearness of his thought,
with his abundance of strong English words forcibly arranged, has
caused his speaking on whatever subject to be effective. His speaking
has always been from the fulness of his heart and with all the energy
of his individuality. Never has he been known to speak weakly or
unemphatically. If he had no message, he kept his seat, and if he
rose to speak it was because he had something which he deeply felt and
which it was important for those present to hear.

Of medium height, possessing a very large head, penetrating, earnest
eyes, and impressive in his movements, his rising always gained him
attention. His voice, which in childhood had been imperfect, grew
clearer and more emphatic with use, and by constant attention to
careful enunciation he gained the power of distinct expression to such
a degree that after having on one occasion found it necessary to speak
continuously in the Newport meeting-house for three hours, he was told
by those in the farthest galleries that not a word had been lost. In
his most earnest appeals he is decidedly eloquent, and many there are
who have heard in his vigorous words that call which lifts souls from
dreamy thought to action. Not one of his sermons has been put on
paper, for he spoke as the words came to his mouth, and reporters were
not present; but there was a clearness and connection as marked as was
the strength of the individual parts, so that his utterances if
printed would be highly valued. If those men do us the greatest
service who give us the clearest view of our relation to God and our
duty to man, then we owe him gratitude, for he successfully helped
feet that were failing to find a surer foothold on the abiding base of
the Rock of Ages.

Further, he performed the true part of the citizen of a democracy, the
part of one who sees the brother and sister mark on every forehead.
Every person who hopes and prays for the highest success of the
principles of our government will have moments of trial for his faith
as he sees the multitudes of responsible citizens who exercise their
high privileges in town and State moved by no higher thought than the
accomplishment of a selfish aim; he will feel a deeper gloom still
when he learns in how many hearts respect for pure men and sacred
principles and reverence for the Ruler of men and nations have been
obscured by the mists of party schemes and personal self-love. Eli
Jones as a Quaker has clearly proclaimed the only basis on which a
democracy can build with a reasonable hope of a beautiful and
permanent structure. In a nation where every man is a legislator,
every man must

    "Feel within himself the need
    Of loyalty to better than himself,
    That shall ennoble him with the _upward_ look;"

nor can he be a safe sharer in the rights of government who has not
intimate converse with the Voice which calls for an _inward_ look.
Through a life of over eighty years he has sought to act at the
ballot-box so that the largest number of human beings might feel the
good effects of his vote.

Again, his life is an interesting example of continuous development.
Though beginning early to obey the voice of duty in regard to public
speaking, he had reached nearly the age of forty before he was really
at work. Year after year since he has seen with clearer vision, and,
catching the teaching of the nautilus, he has made

    "Each new temple, nobler than the last,
    Shut him from heaven with a dome more vast,"

and, feeling more truly each year the serious business of a denizen of
earth, he has doubled his diligence to quit himself like a man.

There has been a deep vein of humor running through his whole life,
and the genuine "mother wit" often found in New Englanders has shown
itself in him to a marked degree. His answers to difficult questions
always come at once, and have a keenness which goes to the marrow of
the subject. Those who have listened to his conversation and heard his
illustrative anecdotes need no example to call to their mind his
native humor, for it has continually shown itself. The uniformity of
his disposition should be spoken of. Calm and equable under trying
circumstances, he was a strong support to his beloved wife when in
feeble health she seemed almost weighed down, and he was especially
fitted by this quality for the perplexing difficulties which
necessarily beset a laborer in foreign lands.

His ripe years have been passed at the foot of China Lake near his
boyhood's home, and he has sat in the meeting as a father in the midst
of his family. Now and then called forth for short service, he has
loved to hasten back and to be at home.

At the time I write he is still permitted to dwell among us, and we
are fortunate in having before our eyes one who has the weight of many
years of experience and wisdom.

When riding with him around China Lake one lovely summer day some of
us younger members of the party pointed out a church-spire in the
distance, and asked him if it was not a beautiful picture--the spire
rising from the abundant green of the surrounding trees and pointing
to the cloudless blue sky. Slowly he said, "Yes, but it would be
better if we knew that all who sit there owned what is above the
spire;" and we felt, as we looked at his genial face lighted up as he
gazed aloft, that "his citizenship was in heaven" and that "for him to
die" would be "gain." There is a domain on earth which only the true
servant enters, and there is a realm of which we do not speak
definitely that opens its gates to admit those who hear the "Well
done!" of the great Master. Blessed indeed is he whose life has been a
preparation for the city where no sun is needed, but where the glory
of God is the light, and the lamp thereof is the Lamb.




       *       *       *       *       *




Transcriber's note:

Variations in spelling, punctuation and hyphenation have been retained
except in obvious cases of typographical error.

Some mismatched double quotation marks were left as in the original.

